


WARNING
To prevent fire or shock hazard,
do not expose this appliance to
rain or moisture.


The lightning flash with arrowhead symbol, within an equilateral triangle, is
intended to alert the user to the presence of uninsulated “dangerous voltage”within the product’s enclosure; that may be of sufficient magnitude toconstitute a risk of electric shock to persons.
The exclamation point within an equilateral triangle is intented to alert the user
to the presence of important operating and maintenance (servicing) instruc-tions in the literature accompanying the appliance.THE SYMBOLS ARE RULED BY UL STANDARDS (U.S.A.)
5B-EnWARNING!!
To prevent fire or shock hazard, do not expose this appliance to rain or moisture.
1-En
CAUTION: TO REDUCE THE RISK OF ELECTRIC SHOCK
DO NOT REMOVE COVER (OR BACK).
NO USER-SERVICEABLE PARTS INSIDE.
REFER SERVICING TO QUALIFIED SERVICE PERSONNEL.CAUTION
RISK OF ELECTRIC SHOCK
DO NOT OPEN
This appliance is not equipped with a fully disconnect main power switch. Even when the appliance
is turned off, the power supply to the appliance is not completely turned off when the power cord isplugged in. Pull out the power cord when not using the appliance for long periods.Important Notice
The material in this document is copyright to AKAI professional M.I. Corp., and may not be
quoted or reproduced in any form without written permission from the company.
LIMITED SOFTWARE WARRANTY POLICY
All the software provided with, or purchased especially for, AKAI professional products has
been tested for functionality. AKAI professional M.I. Corp. will make its best efforts to correct
reported software defects for future releases subject to technical practicabilities.
AKAI professional M.I. Corp. makes no warranty or representation either expressed or im-
plied with respect to the system's performance or fitness for a particular purpose.
In no event will AKAI professional M.I. Corp. be liable for direct or indirect damages arising
from any defect in the software or its documentation. Further, AKAI professional M.I. Corp.
will not accept any liability for any programs, sounds, audio recording or sequences stored in
or used with AKAI professional products, including the cost of recovery of such data.
The warranties, remedies and disclaimers above are exclusive and take precedence over all
others, oral or written, express or implied, to the extent permitted by law in the geographical
area of the product's use. No employee of AKAI professional M.I. Corp., agent, distributor or
employee of an agent or distributor is authorised to offer any variation from this policy.
12/01/2003 Rev. 1.1


WARNING: WHEN USING ELECTRIC PRODUCTS, BASIC PRECAUTIONS SHOULD ALWAYS
BE FOLLOWED, INCLUDING THE FOLLOWING:
WARNING
The MPC1000 is designed to be used in a standard household environment.
Power requirements for electrical equipment vary from area to area. Please ensure that your MPC1000
meets the power requirements in your area. If in doubt, consult a qualified electrician or AKAI profes-
sional dealer.
120 VAC @ 60 Hz for USA and Canada
220~240 VAC @ 50 Hz for Europe
240 VAC @ 50 Hz for Australia
IMPORTANT SAFETY INSTRUCTIONS  
1.  Read these instructions.  
2.  Keep these instructions.  
3.  Heed all warnings.
 4.  Follow all instructions.
5.  Do not use this apparatus near water.
6.  Clean only with dry cloth.
7.  Do not block any ventilation openings. Install in accordance with the manufacture's instructions.
8.  Do not install near any heat souces such as radiators, heat register, stoves, or other apparatus
     (including amplifiers) that produce heat.
9.  Do not defeat the safety purpose of the polarized or grounding-type plug. A polarized plug has
     two blades with one wider than the other. A grounding type plug has two blades and a third 
     grounding prong. The wide blade or the third prong are provided for your safety. If the provided 
     plug does not fit into your outlet, consult an electrician for replacement of the obsolete outlet.
10. Protect the power cord from being walked on or pinched particularly at plugs, convenience 
      receptacles, and the point where they exit from the apparatus.
11. Only use attachments/accessories specified by the manufacturer.
12. Use only with the cart, stand, tripod, bracket, or table specified by the manufacturer, or sold
      with the apparatus. When a cart is used, use caution when moving the cart/apparatus combin-
      ation to avoid injury from tip-over.
13. Unplug this apparatus during lightning storms or when unused for long periods of time.
14. Refer all servicing to qualified service personnel. Servicing is required when the apparatus has
      been damaged in any way, such as power-supply cord or plug is damaged, liquid has been 
      spilled or objects have fallen into the apparatus, the apparatus has been exposed to rain or 
      moisture, does not operate normally, or has been dropped.
15. Do not expose this apparatus to dripping or splashing and ensure that no objects filled with 
      liquids, such as vases, are placed on the apparatus.



For U.K. customers only
WARNING
THIS APPARATUS MUST BE EARTHED
IMPORTANT
This equipment is fitted with an approved non-rewireable UK mains plug.
To change the fuse in this type of plug proceed as follows:
1) Remove the fuse cover and old fuse.
2) Fit a new fuse which should be a BS1362 5 Amp A.S.T.A or BSI approved type.
3) Refit the fuse cover.
If the AC mains plug fitted to the lead supplied with this equipment is not suitable for your type of
AC outlet sockets, it should be changed to an AC mains lead, complete with moulded plug, to theappropriate type. If this is not possible, the plug should be cut off and a correct one fitted to suit theAC outlet. This should be fused at 5 Amps.
If a plug without a fuse is used, the fuse at the distribution board should NOT BE GREATER than
5 Amp.
PLEASE NOTE: THE SEVERED PLUG MUST BE DESTROYED TO AVOID A POSSIBLE
SHOCK HAZARD SHOULD IT BE INSERTED INTO A 13 AMP SOCKETELSEWHERE.
The wires in this mains lead are coloured in accordance with the following code:
GREEN and YELLOW — Earth
BLUE — Neutral
BROWN — Live
As the colours of the wires in the mains lead of this apparatus may not correspond with the coloured
markings identifying the terminals in your plug, please proceed as follows:
The wire which is coloured GREEN and YELLOW must be connected to the terminal which is
marked with the letter E or with the safety earth symbol 
 or coloured GREEN or coloured
GREEN and YELLOW.
The wire which is coloured BLUE must be connected to the terminal which is markedwith the
letter N or coloured BLACK.
The wire which is coloured BROWN must be connected to the terminal which is marked with
the letter L or  coloured RED.
THIS APPARATUS MUST BE EARTHED
Ensure that all the terminals are securely tightened and no loose strands of wire exist.
Before replacing the plug cover, make certain the cord grip is clamped over the outer sheath of the
lead and not simply over the wires.
6D-En


FCC WARNING
This equipment has been tested and found to comply with the limits for a Class B digital device
pursuant to Part 15 of the FCC rules. These limits are designed to provide reasonable protec-tion against harmful interference in a residential installation. This equipment generates, uses,and can radiate radio frequency energy and, if not installed and used in accordance with theinstructions, may cause harmful interference to radio communications. However, there is noguarantee that interference will not occur in a particular installation. If this equipment doescause harmful interference to radio or television reception, which can be determined by turn-ing the equipment off and on, the user is encouraged to try to correct the interference by oneor more of the following measures:
•Reorient or relocate the receiving antenna.
•Increase the separation between the equipment and receiver.
•Connect the equipment into an outlet on a circuit different from that to which the receiver is
connected.
•Consult the dealer or an experienced radio/TV technician for help.
21B-En
AVIS POUR LES  ACHETEURS CANADIENS DU MPC 1000
Le présent appareil num érique n’ément pas de bruits radio électriques d épassant les limites
applicables aux appareils num ériques de la Class B prescrites dans le R èglement sur le
brouillage radio électrique édicté par le minist ère des Communications du Canada.
27-F
This digital apparatus does not exceed the Class B limits for radio noise emissions from digitalapparatus set out in the Radio Interference Regulations of the Canadian Department of Com-munications.
27-En
VENTILATION
Do not prevent the unit ’s ventilation, especially by placing the unit on soft carpet, in a narrow
space, or by placing objects on the unit ’s chassis—top, side, or rear panels. Always keep the
unit’s chassis at least 10 centimeters from any other objects.
31C-En
CHANGES OR MODIFICATIONS NOT EXPRESSLY APPROVED BY THE MANUFACTURERFOR COMPLIANCE COULD VOID THE USER ’S AUTHORITY TO OPERATE THE EQUIP-
MENT.
32-En
COPYRIGHT NOTICE
The AKAI professional MPC 1000 is a computer-based device, and as such contains and uses
software in ROMs. This software, and all related documentation, including this Operator ’s Manual,
contain proprietary information which is protected by copyright laws. All rights are reserved. Nopart of the software or its documentation may be copied, transferred or modified. You may notmodify, adapt, translate, lease, distribute, resell for profit or create derivative works based on thesoftware and its related documentation or any part thereof without prior written consent fromAKAI professional M.I. Corp., Yokohama, Japan.


Table of contents
Chapter 1 : Introduction 	  1
The user interface 	  1
Front Panel 	   3
Rear Panel 	   3
Connecting MPC1000 to External Audio/MIDI device 	   4
Terminologies in MPC1000 	   5
Chapter 2 : Basic Operation 	   7
Setting names 	   8
Entering numbers with NUMERIC key 	   9
Chapter 3 : Sequencer feature 	  10
Recording the performance 	   10
Playing back a sequence 	   11
Other useful features for recording sequences 	   12
Detailed information on sequence feature 	   15
Track features 	   20
MIDI sequencer features 	   22
Chapter 4 : Editing sequences 	  25
Selecting a region within a track to edit 	       25
Selecting the editing region by bar 	   27
Changing the order of tracks (TRACK MOVE) 	   29
Chapter 5 : Step editing 	  30
About step edit 	   30
Screens 	   30
Events 	   31
Copying/pasting an event 	   33
Deleting an event 	   34
Entering an event (Step recording) 	   34
Chapter 6 : Song mode 	  36
Structure of a song 	   36
Creating a song 	   37
Playing a song  	   37
Other features in the SONG mode 	   38
Chapter 7 : Functions of a pad 	   40
Playing with pads 	   40
Setting the track mute with pads  	   41
Selecting a sequence to play with pads  	   42                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
I


Chapter 8 : Q-Link slider 	   44
Setting the slider 	   44
Recording the slider value in a sequence 	   44
AFTER key 	   44
Chapter 9 : Using the MPC1000 with external devices 	   45
Sync with the MPC1000 as the master  	   45
Sync with the MPC1000 as the slave  	   45
Connecting the MPC1000 to the MIDI keyboard with the sound module 	   46
Setting the MIDI input 	   47
Chapter 10 : Recording a sample 	   48
Recording the sample - detailed information 	   50
Recording the digital signal 	   50
Recording the MAIN OUT 	   50
Other features 	   51
Chapter 11 : Editing a sample 	   52
Setting the start/end points for the sample 	   52
Deleting an unnecessary part from a sample (DISCARD) 	   53
Saving part of a sample as a new sample (EXTRACT) 	   54
Sample window features 	   54
Other editing functions 	   55
Setting the loop 	   56
Linking the loop point to the start point 	   57
Chapter 12 : Program 	   58
Creating a program  	   58
Assigning/Reassigning samples to the pads 	   58
Playing the sample while the pad is being hit  	   59
Setting the volume and the tuning for a sample 	   59
Changing the sample volume with velocity 	   59
Playing several samples with one pad 	   60
Switching between samples using velocity 	   60
Setting the envelope for a pad 	   61
The functions in the Program window 	   61
Editing the sound of a sample 	   63
Simulating the open/close hi-hat (setting the mute group) 	   64
Setting the overlap of the sounds on the same pad (voice overlap) 	   64
Delete all the unused samples at the same time (PURGE) 	   64
Setting a MIDI note number to the pads 	   65
Assigning MIDI note numbers to the pads (changeing the default setting) 	   66                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
II


Chapter 13 : Mixer 	   67
Setting the level and pan of the pad  	   67
Setting the output for the sample  	   67
Selecting the pad to apply the effect 	   68
Chapter 14 : Effect 	   69
Applying effects to a specific pad sound 	   69
Applying effects of the FX2 to the effect sound of the FX1 	   70
Editing effects 	   70
Using the master effect 	   73
Editing the effect set 	   74
Chapter 15 : Save / Load 	   75
Saving the data 	   75
Loading a file  	   79
Renaming a file 	   83
Deleting a file 	   83
Setting the auto load function 	   83
Formatting the memory card 	   84
Saving the data to the internal flash memory 	   84
Chapter 16 : Connecting the MPC1000 to your computer 	   85
Connecting the MPC1000 to a Windows-based PC  	   85
Connecting the MPC1000 to a Macintosh  	   86
Chapter 17 : Other settings 	   87
Foot switch  	   87
Adjusting the master level 	   88
Adjusting the contrast of LCD 	         88
Initialize to Factory Preset 	   88
Index 	   89
Specifications 	   91
MIDI Implementation Chart 	   93
Preset Programs List  	   95                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
III


Chapter 1 : Introduction
Welcome to MUSIC PRODUCTION CENTER MPC1000. This operator's manual describes how to use an MPC1000. 
Please read this manual before you start using your MPC1000, and keep it in a safe place so that you can refer to it 
as needed. In this manual, the names of the knobs and keys on panels and plugs are located in square brackets, 
as follows: [name] .
The user interface
Below is a brief overview of the MPC1000.
1. [REC GAIN] knob:
It controls the recording level of the incoming signal 
from [RECORD IN]. It cannot control the digital input 
level.
2. [MAIN VOLUME] knob:
It controls the levels of [STEREO OUT] and [PHONES] 
(headphone).
3. PAD BANK [A] through [D] keys:
Use these keys to switch between pad banks A, B, C, 
D. The LED above currently selected pad bank will be 
lit.
4. [FULL LEVEL] key:
When turned on (LED is lit), the MPC1000 always 
plays back at the maximum velocity (127).
5. [16 LEVELS] key:
When turned on, you can use 16 pads to change the 
selected pad’s velocity and tune in 16 steps. 
For more information, see the “16 Level function” section on page 40.
6. [NEXT SEQ] key:
This key calls up the NEXT SEQ page, where you can 
switch sequences with pads. 
For more information, see the ”Selecting the sequence 
to play with pad” section on page 42. 
7. [TRACK MUTE] key:
This key calls up the TRACK MUTE page where you 
can mute a track with pads. 
For more information, see the “Selecting track mute 
with pads” section on page 41. 
8. [ERASE] key:
This key deletes event(s) within a track. You can 
delete events in real time on recording, or you can 
select the events to delete in the Erase window. 
For more information, see the “Erase feature” section 
on page 12.Introduction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
-1-


9. [TAP TEMPO/NOTE REPEAT] key:
You can set a tempo by tapping this key to the desired 
tempo (TAP TEMPO feature). Also, by holding a pad 
while pressing this key, you can repeat a note 
according to the setting in T.C. (NOTE REPEAT 
feature). For more information, see the “Tap Tempo 
feature” section on page 16, and the “Note Repeat 
feature” section on page 15.
10.  [DATA] wheel:
This changes the value of the currently selected field. 
11. [NUMERIC] key:
If you press this key in any field, allowing you to enter 
numbers, the LED will blink and you can enter numbers 
using pads. 
12. [MODE] key:
When you press this key (LED will blink), you can 
switch modes with pads. 
13. [CURSOR] key: 
You can move the highlighted cursor up and down on 
the screen to select a field. In the value field, you can 
switch digits by pressing </> keys, holding [SHIFT] 
key. 
14. [MAIN] key:
Pressing this key displays MAIN mode, regardless the 
current mode.
15. [WINDOW] key:
Pressing this key, when the LED is lit, displays a pop 
up window where you can make a detailed setting of 
the field.
16. [UNDO SEQ] key:
When you record a sequence, the LED of this key will 
light up. Pressing this key, when the LED is lit, resets 
the system to its status before recording, and LED will 
be turned off. 
17. [SHIFT] key:
You can use various features with a combination of 
another key. 
18. [BAR] key:
You can move sequences by bar. When you press </> 
keys holding the [SHIFT] key, you can step through 
sequences according to the value of the timing correct 
setting.
19. [PLAY START] key:
Plays a sequence from the start if LOOP:OFF. 
If LOOP:ON plays sequence from loop start. Press 
[SHIFT] + [PLAY START] to go to start of sequence.20. [REC] key:
Pressing the [PLAY START] key or the [PLAY] key 
holding this key starts recording to a sequence. Any 
event that is already recorded on the track will be 
replaced with new events. 
You can punch in by pressing  the [PLAY] + [REC] key 
while playing back a sequence, and punch out by 
pressing the [REC] key during recording. 
For more information, see the “Punch In/Punch Out 
feature” section on page 15.
21. [OVER DUB] key:
This key is basically the same as the [REC] key, but it 
adds new events to the current events (over dub). You 
can punch in by pressing the [PLAY] + [OVER DUB] 
keys while playing back a sequence, and punch out by 
pressing the [OVER DUB] key while over dubbing. 
22. [STOP] key:
This key stops the play back/recording of a sequence.
If you hit this key 3 times quickly, you can stop all 
sound playing back.
23. [PLAY] key:
This key starts the play back of a sequence from its 
current position. Pressing the [SHIFT] + [PLAY] keys 
moves to the end of the sequence. 
24. Display:
This is the LCD (Liquid Crystal Display) with backlight. 
25. [F1] through [F6] keys:
These keys are used to call up pages to the bottom of 
the display, or to execute the feature assigned to the 
key. The available feature depends on the currently 
displayed screen. 
26. [PAD1] through [PAD16]:
These are the drum pads to play the internal sampler. 
The pressure/strength you use to hit the pad controls 
the level of the sound. In TRACK MUTE mode, you can 
select a track and, in NEXT SEQ mode, you can select 
a sequence with a pad. You can also use these pads 
to select modes or to enter letters. 
27. [AFTER] key:
When you turn on this key, the information of the 
Q-Link slider recorded on a track replaces the current 
value of the slider. For more information, see page 44.
28. [Q1] and [Q2] sliders
These sliders control the sound according to the 
setting in the SLIDER mode. For more information, see 
the “Q-Link slider” section on page 44. Introduction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
-2-


Front Panel
1. Compact flash slot:
This is a card slot for the compact flash memory card.
2. [FOOTSWITCH 1/2] plug:
This is where you connect a foot switch. You can use 
a foot switch to punch in/out. For more information, 
see the  “Foot Switch” section on page 87.
There are two types of foot switches: normal open (the 
contact is open when it is not pressed),
and normal closed (the contact is closed when it is not 
pressed). If  a foot switch has been connected to the MPC1000, 
when you turn on the power to the MPC1000, it 
automatically detects the type of foot switch 
connected. You can use either type of foot switch.
 
3. [PHONES] plug: 
This is a stereo phone plug to connect a set of 
headphones. It sends out the same signal with the 
[STEREO OUT] plug.
Rear Panel
1. [RECORD IN L/R] plug: 
This is an analog input for recording an analog signal. 
With a stereo phone plug, it 
can be used as balanced input.
2. [STEREO OUT L/R] plug:
This is the main output 
3. [ASSIGNABLE MIX OUT 1/2/3/4] plug:
These are outputs you can use to output each pad 
sound separately. With external mixers or effecters, 
you can perform advanced mixing. 
4. [MIDI OUT A/B] plug:
This is the MIDI output. Each output can send 
independent MIDI signals.
5. [MIDI IN 1/2] plug: 
This is the MIDI input. MIDI signals from MIDI IN 1 and 
2 will be merged (mixed). 6. [USB] plug (slave):
You use this plug to connect the MPC1000 to your PC 
and transfer data. For more information, see the 
“Connecting the MPC1000 to your computer” section 
on page 85.
7. [DIGITAL OUT] plug:
This is the coaxial digital output. It sends out the same 
signal as the [STEREO OUT] plug. 
8. [DIGITAL IN] plug:
This is the coaxial digital input. Use this input to 
connect digital outputs such as a CD player and a 
DAT.
9. Power plug:
Plug in the AC cable here. 
10. [POWER] switch:
It switches the power on/off of the unit. Introduction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
-3-HOT COLD GND


Connecting MPC1000 to External Audio/MIDI device
The diagram below demonstrates how you can connect the MPC1000 to an external Audio/MIDI device. 
Please note that this is one example, so, when you actually connect your devices, refer to the device’s operator's 
manual.
Note: When you connect devices, make sure the power is turned off. 
Introduction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
-4-


Terminologies in MPC1000
These are the basic terminologies you need to know to operate the MPC1000:
Sequence
Sequence is the most basic unit that you use when you create 
data with the MPC 1000. The data from the MIDI keyboard or 
pads will be recorded to each track in a sequence. 
A sequence has 64 tracks, each of which can hold performance 
data. You can create up to 99 sequences. The length of a 
sequence can be set from 1 bar to 999 bars. You can create a 
whole song with one sequence; however you can also create a 
song with a combination of several short sequences with the 
Song feature.
Track
A sequence has 64 tracks. Each track can record separate 
performance data. For example, you can record instruments 
separately on each track (ex. Piano sound in track 1, Bass on 
Track 2, Organ on Track 3,etc…). You can record one track at a 
time; however, you can play back already-recorded tracks while 
recording a new track. Each track has the track mute setting 
(whether play back the contents of the track or not). 
For example you record two Piano solos on Track 1 and Track4 and compare them using mute function. 
Performance data will be recorded on a track as a MIDI event. It does not record sounds directly on a track. 
Song
With the song feature, you can play back sequences in a certain 
order. You can set the order and number of sequences to play 
back freely. This is useful when you wish to play back several 
songs in a row, or when you are creating a song with a 
combination of several sequence data.
With the MPC1000, you can create up to 20 songs. When you 
arrange sequences into a song, assign them to each step in the 
song. A step is like a “container” of sequences. A song has 250 steps. 
Sample
With the MPC1000, sound data that is loaded into the unit is called a sample. A sample is loaded to the 
MPC1000 when you record in RECORD mode, load from a memory card, or transfer from PC through USB. You 
can change the start/end point of a sample or set loop in TRIM mode. To play back sounds, you need to assign 
samples to pads in PROGRAM mode. There are 2 kinds of samples: Stereo sample (2-channel sample with left 
and right channels), and Mono sample (1-channel sample). 
Drum Pad
The MPC1000 has 16 pads. You can play a sample that is assigned to a pad by hitting the pad. The MPC1000 
has 4 pad banks that you can assign separate samples to. You can switch those 4 pad banks using the [PAD 
BANK] key, so you can use up to 64 pads. To assign samples to the pads, use the PROGRAM mode. The 
performance of the pad can be recorded to a track in a sequence. Introduction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
-5-



Program
Once you assign samples to the pads in the PROGRAM mode, 
you can play those samples with the pads. A set of 64 pads, 
each assigned samples, is called the Program. The program also 
has features that allow you to control the sound of samples, such 
as envelop and filter. You can make settings separately for each 
pad. 
RAM
RAM (Random Access Memory) is a space where you can load sounds or data temporarily. The MPC1000 
comes with 16 MB (megabyte) of RAM that can record up to 136 seconds (monaural recording). The MB is a unit 
that represents the size of the memory. With the optional EXM128, you can increase your memory to 128MB. 
The data loaded in the RAM will be deleted when you turn off the MPC1000. If you wish to save your recordings, 
you need to save on a memory card, or transfer the data to PC through USB. 
Memory Card
The MPC1000 has a 32MB compact flash memory card. Compact Flash is a memory that is called “Flash 
Memory” .You can save the data on the flash memory like RAM, but the data will remain after you turn off the 
unit. By saving the recordings in the MPC1000’s RAM on the Memory card, you can save the data after you turn 
off the MPC1000. Please note that the MPC1000 cannot play back the data directly from a memory card. You 
have to load the data from a card to RAM to play back. There are several kinds of flash memory cards, but 
MPC1000 uses “compact flash” memory cards.Introduction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
-6-



Chapter 2 : Basic Operation
In this chapter, we will describe the basic operation of the MPC1000.
MAIN Page
This is the main screen of the MPC1000, 
where you record and play back sequences. 
You can go back to this page at any time by  
pressing the [MAIN] key; for example, when  
you get lost while operating  MPC1000 and  
want to go back to this page. You cannot go  
back to MAIN page by pressing [MAIN] key  
while processing (e.g. recording, loading/saving etc..).
Cursor, Cursor Keys, Field, DATA Wheel
The highlighted part on the screen is called the “Cursor” (On above screen, [01- Sequence01] on Main screen is 
highlighted).You can move the cursor on the screen using four cursor keys on the panel. Usually they move to a 
specific locations such as right to colon ( : ) . Those locations are called “field”, where you can make various 
setting, or enter values. To change the settings of a field, select the field and turn the [DATA] wheel on the 
panel.
This operation, selecting a field by using a cursor key and changing its settings with the [DATA] wheel, is the 
most basic operation of MPC1000.
Function Keys
Six keys (F1 to F6) aligned under the LCD (liquid crystal display) are function keys. Those keys correspond to 
each of the six functions that are displayed on the bottom of the LCD. Pressing each key activates its 
corresponding function. The function that each function key represents depends on the contents on the LCD. 
When the LCD displays like this, pressing function keys starts some processing or displays windows.
When LCD displays like this, you can switch pages using function keys F1 to F4. The currently selected page is 
displayed with black letters on a white background. Pressing F5 and F6 keys does not make any changes. 
Some pages display the page selection and processing function at the same time (see below). 
In this case, use F1 and F2 for switching pages, and F6 for activating processing. You cannot use F3,  F4 and 
F5.
In this book, function keys are described something like this:  “[F1] (TRIM) key”- in the bracket, it shows the 
function displayed on LCD. 
WINDOW key
The MPC1000 has so many functions that they cannot be displayed in one screen. For efficiency, each page 
only displays the most frequently used functions. If you want to make an advanced setting, press the 
[WINDOW] key. This opens a window for the detailed setting of the selected field. This is not available for all 
fields.  When you select a field in which you can use the [WINDOW] key, the LED of the key is lit. Basic Operation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-7-



MODE key
With the MPC1000, each function (such as recording samples, editing samples, assigning samples to each pad, 
editing sequence data, loading from memory cards, etc…) has a separate screen. These screens are called 
“modes”. For example, you will use the RECORD mode to record samples, and the TRIM mode to edit samples, 
the [MODE] key switches modes. By pressing the [MODE] key and hitting a pad, you can switch modes. The 
mode that a pad corresponds to is displayed above each pad. 
Setting names
The MPC1000 handles various types of data, from sound related data (such as samples and programs) to 
performance related data (such as sequences and tracks). These data are managed by names. In this section, 
you will learn how to name different data. 
Select a field which you wish to name with the cursor and turn the DATA wheel. The Name windows will show up. 
In the Name windows, you can name the data. 
In this window, the cursor is displayed as an  
underscore instead of highlights.  
You can enter the name, either by using pad or by using DATA wheel. 
Entering letters with DATA wheel
You can change letters selected with a cursor by turning DATA wheel in the Name window. Move the cursor with 
RIGHT/LEFT cursor key and enter letters. You can enter letters using both DATA wheel and pads. 
Entering letters with a pad
Two letters are assigned to each pad. By hitting a pad, the corresponding letter is entered. 
Below, we will describe how to enter “Bass 01” instead of “Sequence 01”.
01.	 Press the UP cursor key to make the first letter capitalized. 
Pressing the UP cursor key allows you to enter a capitalized letter. 
02.	 Hit Pad 1 twice.
Hitting Pad 1 once enters A, twice enters B. Each time you hit the pad, the letter switches between A and B.
03.	 Press the RIGHT cursor key and move the cursor to the right.
If you enter the next letter using a different pad, the cursor will move to the right automatically. However, 
when you enter the letters which are assigned to the same pad, you need to press the RIGHT cursor key to 
move the cursor manually. In this example, A and B are assigned to the same pad. So, you need to move the 
cursor manually.
04.	 The next letter is a lower-case letter (“a”), so press the DOWN cursor key.
Pressing the DOWN cursor key allows you to enter lower case letters. 
05.	 Hit Pad 1 once.
The lower case letter “a” is entered.
06.	 Hit Pad 10 once.
The cursor will move to the right automatically and a lower-case letter “s” is entered.
07.	 Press the RIGHT cursor key to move the cursor to the right and hit the pad 10 once.
08.	 Press the RIGHT cursor key to move the cursor to the right and press RIGHT cursor 
key holding the [SHIFT] key.
The [SHIFT] + RIGHT cursor key inserts space.Basic Operation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-8-



09. Press the right cursor key to move the cursor one step to the right, and select “0” by 
turning the DATA wheel. 
To enter numeric values, numerically, use the DATA wheel.
10. Press the right cursor key to move the cursor one step to the right, and select “1” by 
turning the DATA wheel.
11.	 Press the RIGHT cursor key to move the cursor to the right, and press the LEFT cursor 
key four times holding the [SHIFT] key. 
The [SHIFT] + LEFT cursor keys delete selected letters. 
Now “Bass 01” is entered instead of “Sequence 01”. 
12.	 Press [F5] (ENTER) to confirm the entry and close the window. 
Pressing [F4] (CANCEL) cancels the entry and closes the window. In this case, the name does not change.
Other useful functions in the Name window
Copy and Paste function
With the copy and paste function, you can copy the letters in the “New name” field and paste to set a name to 
another data. This is useful when you wish to create similar names for different data. 
If you press [F2] (COPY ) key when Name window is open, the letters in the “New name” field will be copied 
(temporarily saved). When you press [F3] (PASTE) in the Name window , those copied letters can be pasted to 
the “New name" field.
Entering numbers with NUMERIC key
In the value fields such as the sample’s TRIM page, you can enter numbers directly by using the [NUMERIC] 
key. 
01.	 Press the [NUMERIC] key on an available field. 
The key’s LED will blink and allows you to enter numbers using the pad.
02.	 Enter numbers by hitting the corresponding pads.
The number indicated on the upper right corner of the pad is entered. Pad 1 through 9 corresponds number 1 
to 9 and Pad 10 corresponds to number 0. 
When you enter the wrong number, hit Pad 16. The number is canceled and you can enter the correct 
number.
03.	 Hit Pad 12.
That confirms your entry.
When you set the Time field, you can change the unit (digit) by hitting Pad 11.
In fields where you can set +/-, you can switch + and – by hitting Pad 13. Basic Operation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-9-


Chapter 3 : Sequencer feature
The MPC1000 has a sequencer feature that allows you to record/playback your performance. With the sequencer 
feature, you can record the performance you created with the pads. And by playing back the recorded data, you 
can reproduce your performance. The actual performance will be recorded on a track within a sequence. For more 
information on sequences and tracks, see the “Terminologies in MPC1000” section on page 5. 
The performance data you made by hitting the pads will be recorded on a track as a pad event. A track can contain 
other events, such as Q- Link slider information, tempo change etc… When you are using the MPC1000 with an 
external MIDI device, you can record the data from the external keyboard as MIDI events. 
Note: Please note that Sequencer feature records only performance data (when and which pad you hit, etc…). 
It does not record the actual sound.
MAIN page
This is the page where you record/playback 
sequences. This is the MPC1000’s main 
operation mode and, unlike the other pages, 
you can display this page just pressing the 
[MAIN] key at any time. 
Now field
The Now field, which is located in the upper left corner of the screen, displays the current time of the sequence. 
It shows the bar, beat, tick (1 beat = 96 ticks), from left to right. For example, “002.03.00” means the third beat 
in the second bar. A tick is a unit that divides a beat (1/4 note) into 96 parts. For example, 1 beat equals one 1/4 
note (96ticks), so one 1/8 note equals the half of 1 beat, which is 48 ticks. 
Below is the relationship between note and tick:
1/4 note	 = 96 ticks	 1/8 note	 = 48 ticks	 1/16 note	 = 24 ticks
1/4 triplets	 = 64 ticks	 1/8 triplets	 = 32 ticks	 1/16 triplets	 = 16 ticks
When you record/playback a sequence, the display updates constantly to show the current position of the 
sequence. You can move the cursor to the Now field to set the time manually. 
Sequence / Sq field
A Sequence is the most basic unit when you create data with the MPC1000. Performance data from the MIDI 
keyboard or pad can be recorded on each track within a sequence. You can select a sequence in the Sq field. 
An unused sequence is indicated as (unused). All the settings in the MAIN page can be set separately for each 
sequence.
Track / Tr field
A sequence has 64 tracks where you can record various performance data separately. You can, for example, 
record Piano sounds on track 1, Bass on track 2, Organ on track 3 etc…  In the Tr field, you can select a track 
within the sequence selected in the Sq field. An unused track is indicated as (unused). You can set Mute, Midi, 
Type, and Pgm fields separately for each track. 
Recording the performance
In this section, you will learn how to record the performance you made with pads to tracks in a sequence.
Note: To record your performance data to a sequence, you need to load a program to the MPC1000 that you play  
using the pads. By default, the MPC1000 automatically loads a preset program and demo sequence when 
you switch it on. Here, we assume that you have already loaded a program to the MPC1000. If you have not 
done so, do this now by loading a program from a memory card, or by recording a sample and assigning it to a 
pad, etc… For more information on loading a program, see the “Loading a file” section on page 79. For more 
information on recording a sample, see the “recording a sample” section on page 48. Sequence feature
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-10-



01. Press the [MAIN] key.
The [MAIN] key displays the MAIN page where you record your sequences. 
02. In the Sq field, select a sequence to which you wish to record your performance.
You can select any sequence for recording a performance; but here, select a sequence that says “unused”. 
“Unused” indicates that the sequence is not used. 
03. In the Tr field, select a track on which you wish to record your performance.
Your performance will be recorded on the track you select in the sequence. You can select any track, but 
here select “Tr:01”. 
04. In the Pgm field, select a program you wish to play. 
You can select a program in the RAM by turning the DATA wheel.
05. Hit pads to check the sounds that are assigned to the pads. 
You can play back the program selected in the Pgm field.
06. Press the [PLAY START] key while holding the [REC] key.
The recording will start after 4 counts. 
07. Play the pads to record your performance. 
By default, the sequence is set to 2 bars. After recording for 2 bars, the MPC1000 will start playing back the 
recorded performance. You can add to your original performance by continuing to play the pads when the 
track loops. The MPC1000 automatically switches to "over dub" recording and adds to the performance.
08. You can stop overdub recording by pressing [STOP] key.
09. Press the [PLAY] key to play your recorded performance. 
10. If you do not like the performance, you can start a new recording by pressing the [REC]+
[PLAY START] keys.
This cancels the currently recorded performance data and starts a new recording.
11. To add to the already recorded performance, press the [PLAY START] key while holding 
the [OVER DUB] key.
It plays back the currently recorded performance and you can add the new performance by hitting pads. 
Tips: If you select another sequence in the Sq field, you can record a new performance separately. By playing 
back those sequences, you can create one whole song. 
Tips: By default, the MPC1000 is set to load a demo sequence automatically when you turn it on. If you wish to 
remove the demo sequence and start from the scratch, see “Deleting all sequences” section on page 19. 
Playing back a sequence
You can play back a recorded sequence by pressing the [PLAY START] key. The sequence will be played 
repeatedly until you press the [STOP] key. If you press the [PLAY] key again, the MPC1000 will resume the 
playback from where the previous play back was stopped. 
Repeat play back of a sequence
You can play back several sequences in a series by using the Next Sequence feature. The Next Sequence 
feature allows you to select the next sequence to play, during playing back a sequence, so that you can play 
the sequences in a series. 
01. In the Sq field in the MAIN page, select the sequence you wish to play first. 
02. Press the [PLAY START] key to start the play back of the sequence. 
03. Select the Sq field during play back, and select the next sequence to play. 
Selecting a sequence in the Sq field during the playback brings up the Next field, where you can select the 
next sequence. Sequence feature
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-11-


After playing back the currently selected sequence to the end, the MPC1000 will start playing back the 
sequence you select in the Next field. By repeating this step, you can play back several sequences 
continuously. 
Tips: With the [NEXT SEQ] key, you can select the next sequence with a pad. For more information, see the 
“Selecting a sequence with pads” section on page 42. 
Tips: In the SONG mode, you can set the order to play sequences. For more information, see the “SONG mode” 
section on page 36.
Other useful features for recording sequences
Undo Sequence feature
When overdubbing sequences, you can cancel the last recording and reset to the setting before the recording. 
01. During overdubbing, press the [STOP] key to stop the overdub and press the [UNDO 
SEQ] key. 
The LED of the [UNDO SEQ] key will be off and only the last added recording will be deleted. To restore the 
recording, press the [UNDO SEQ] key again to light the LED. 
Note: You can use the [UNDO SEQ] key only for the last recording. 
Erase feature
You can delete a certain pad performance by using the [ERASE] key. There are two ways to use this feature: by 
deleting real-time during overdub, and by selecting a pad and part to delete in the ERASE window when overdub 
is stopped. 
Deleting in real time
01. Press the [PLAY START] key while holding the [OVER DUB] key to start overdub. 
02. Hold the pad you wish to delete while holding the [ERASE] key. 
From the performance data being recorded, only the section from where you press the [ERASE] key and pad 
and you release them will be deleted. By pressing the pad at the right timing, you can delete the performance 
data at a certain timing in the phrase. 
Deleting in the Erase window
Performance data will be recorded in a track as an event. In the Erase window, you can select specific events in 
a track to delete. 
01. Press the [STOP] key to stop a sequence. 
02. Press the [ERASE] key.
The Erase window will open up. 
The Tr field displays the number and the name of the 
selected track. To delete all the events of the track, 
select “Tr:00- ALL TRACKS” by turning the DATA 
wheel to the left. 
03. In the Time field, specify the area to delete events. 
You will select the start and end point of the area in the Time field. For example, to delete only the event in the 
first bar from 2-bar sequence, set “001.01.00 - 002.01.00”. In this case, the event at 002.01.00 point will not 
be deleted. Sequence feature
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-12-



If you set the end point “002.01.00” like this, 
the area right before the end point will be 
included in the area. 
04. In the Erase field, select NOTE ONLY.
Note field will open up.
05. Select the Note field.
If you wish to delete all events, leave it as ALL.. To delete only events on a specific pad, hit the pad to 
delete. You can select several pads. If you hit a different pad by mistake, you can cancel the selection by 
hitting the pad again. To restart the pad selection, turn the DATA wheel to the left. The value in the Note field 
will be reset to ALL so that you can select pad from the beginning. 
06. Press [F5] (DO IT) key. 
The operation starts and the events of the selected pad within the selected area will be deleted.
Tips: When you delete events with the Erase field set to ALL EVENT, the MPC1000 will delete other events in 
the selected area as well as pad events. When you delete events with the Erase field set to EXCEPT Note, 
the MPC1000 will delete the other events other than the pad events in the selected area. 
Timing correct feature
When recording a pad performance, it is hard to play the pads to the tempo. By using the timing correct feature, 
you can correct the timing of the pad event you recorded by hitting pads. There are two ways to use this feature: 
by correcting the timing in real time during the recording, and by correcting the recorded event after the 
recording. 
Real time timing correction
You can correct the timing real-time during the recording. 
01. When a sequence is stop, press [F1] (T.C.) key in the MAIN page. 
The Timing Correct window will open up. 
02. In the Note value field, set the value for timing correction. 
For example, if you set “1/16”, each position of the performance data will be moved to the nearest 1/16 note. 
You can set the Note values as follows. 
1/8 = 1/8 note, 1/8(3) = 1/8 note triplets, 1/16 = 1/16 note, 1/16(3) = 1/16 note triplets, 1/32 = 1/32 note, 
1/32(3) = 1/32 note triplets, OFF = NO timing correction.
Swing feature
You can set the swing value in the Swing% field. With the swing feature, the even numbered events set in the 
Note value field will be off the rhythm according to the value in the Swing% field. With this feature you can create 
the shuffle groove. 
03. Press [F4] (CLOSE) key. 
It closes the window. 
Note: If you press [F5] (DO IT) key, the MPC1000 will correct the timing of the recorded data. 
Tips: If you press [F1] (T.C.) key during recording/playback, a small Timing Correct window will be displayed while 
you are holding the key. You can use the Note value field of this window to change the value for timing 
correction. It makes it easier to change the value during the recording.Sequence feature
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-13-002.01.00
001.04.95 001.04.94 002.01.01 001.04.93EVENT EVENT EVENT EVENT EVENT


Correcting the timing of recorded events
You can correct the timing of recorded events. 
01. When a sequence is stop, press [F1] (T.C.) key in the MAIN page. 
Timing Correct window will open up. 
02. In the Note value field, set the value for timing correction. 
For example, if you set “1/16”, each position of the performance data will be gridded to the nearest 1/16 note. 
You can set the Note values as follows: 
1/8 = 1/8 note, 1/8(3) = 1/8 note triplets, 1/16 = 1/16 note, 1/16(3) = 1/16 note triplets, 1/32 = 1/32 note, 
1/32(3) = 1/32 note triplets, OFF = NO timing correction.
Swing feature
You can set the swing value in the Swing% field. With the swing feature, the even numbered events set in the 
Note value field will be off the rhythm according to the value in the Swing% field. With this feature you can create 
the shuffle groove. 
03. In the Time field, select the area to correct the timing. 
04. In the Note field, hit the pad you wish to correct the timing. 
To correct the timing of all events, leave it as ALL. To correct the timing of only events on a specific pad, hit 
the pad. You can select several pads. If you hit a different pad by mistake, you can cancel the selection by 
hitting the pad again. To restart the pad selection, turn the DATA wheel to the left. The value in the Note field 
will be reset to ALL so that you can select pad from the beginning.
05. Press [F5] (DO IT) key.
The timing correction will start and the window will be close.
Click/Metronome feature
In this section, you will learn about various settings for the metronome (click sound). 
01. When a sequence is in stop mode, Press [F2] (CLICK) key in the MAIN page. 
Click/Metronome window will open up. 
Count in field
You can set how soon the recording/playback should start after the [PLAY] or the [PLAY START] key is 
pressed; right after the key is pressed, or after a 1-bar count. 
OFF	 Recording/playback will start right after the key is pressed without a count. 
REC ONLY	 There will be a count only for recording/overdub. Playback will be start without a count.
REC+PLAY	 There will be a count for both recording and playback. 
Rate field
You can select the rhythm for the metronome sound. The metronome will be played with 1/4 note if you set “1/4”, 
and 1/8 note if you set “1/8”. 
In play field
You can select this if you want the metronome sound during playback. If you select YES, you will hear the 
metronome sound during playback. Sequence feature
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-14-


In rec field
You can select this if you want the metronome sound during recording/overdub. If you select NO, you will not 
hear the metronome sound during the recording/overdub. 
Note repeat feature
If you press a pad while holding the [NOTE REPEAT] key, the pad sound will be played repeatedly according to 
the value of the timing correct until you release the pad. You can also control its velocity by changing the 
strength used to press the pad. With the Note repeat feature, you can record a difficult phrase to record in real 
time, such as 16 beat hi hat, snare roll, etc… 
01. Press the [NOTE REPEAT] key during recording/playback. 
02. While holding the [NOTE REPEAT] key, press the pad to play repeatedly. 
The pad’s sound will be played repeatedly according to the value of the timing correct until you release the 
pad. You can also control its velocity by changing the strength to press the pad.
Punch In/Punch Out feature
You can start the recording in the middle of the sequence during the playback (“Punch In”).
You can also stop the recording in the middle of the sequence and resume the playback (“Punch Out”). This is 
useful when you re-record the part of the recorded sequence. 
Punch In
Press the [PLAY], or the [PLAY START] key to play back a sequence. At the point where you wish to start the 
recording, press the [REC] key while holding the [PLAY] key. The MPC1000 will start the recording. 
If you press the [OVER DUB] key and the [PLAY] key instead, the MPC1000 will start the over dubbing. 
Punch Out
If you press the [REC], or the [OVER DUB] key during the recording/overdubbing, the MPC1000 will stop the 
recording/overdubbing and resume the playback. 
Detailed information on sequence feature
Setting the length of a sequence
By default, a sequence is set to a 2-bar length, but you can set this length between 1 to 999 bars. 
01. In the MAIN page, select the Bars field. 
The Bar field displays the current value. 
02. Turn the DATA wheel, or press [WINDOW] key.
The Change Bars window will open up. 
03. In the New bars field, select the new number of bars.
If you set a larger number than the current value, empty bars will be added at the end of the sequence.
If you set a smaller number, the bars in the end of the sequence will be deleted.
04. Press [F5] (DO IT) key 
That applies the new setting and closes the window. Sequence feature
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-15-


Setting the time signature of the sequence
By default, the time of a sequence is set to the quadruple time (4/4), but you can change the setting. 
01. In the MAIN page, select Tsig field.
The Tsig field displays the current value.
02. Turn the DATA wheel or press the [WINDOW] key. 
The Change Tsig window will open up. 
The upper part of the screen indicates the number of bars. The currently selected time is displayed below it.
03. Select the desired time signature, and set to this. 
Select the bar to change the time with the right/left cursor keys and change the time with DATA wheel. 
  will 
be displayed under the time display at the bar to which you changed the setting. 
04. Press [F5] (DO IT) key 
That changes the time signature of the bars and closes the window.
Setting tempo
You can set the tempo in the 
  (Tempo) field of the MAIN page. 
You can set the tempo for a sequence between 30.0 and 300.0. You can change the tempo after you create the 
sequence. You can also change the tempo in the sequence by inserting the tempo change event in the STEP 
EDIT mode.
Tap tempo feature
You can set the tempo using the [TAP TEMPO] key as well as in the 
  (Tempo) field. Tap the [TAP TEMPO] key 
to the desired tempo. The MPC1000 will calculate the tempo starting with the timing that you tap with the [TAP 
TEMPO] key, and set the sequence’s tempo to that. The MPC1000 takes the average interval of 4 taps of the 
[TAP TEMPO] key. You can set the number of taps used to calculate the tempo in the Tap average field in the 
MISC. page in OTHER mode. 
Changing tempo of all sequences at one time
You can change the tempo of all sequences to the same tempo at one time. You can change the tempo of each 
sequence at any time after you create the sequence, but it is useful to change all the sequence at one time 
when you are creating one song with several sequences. 
01. In the MAIN page, select 
  (Tempo) field and press the [WINDOW] key.
The Tempo Change window will open.
02. Press [F5] (FIX) key.
The Fix Tempo window will open.
03. In the Fix tempo field, set the tempo.
04. Press [F3] (DO IT) key.
It changes the tempo of all of the sequences to the value set in the Fix tempo field. Sequence feature
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-16-


About Tempo change
With the STEP RECORDING feature in the STEP EDIT mode, you can insert the tempo change even in a track, 
so that you can change the tempo within a sequence. 
When you use the tempo change feature, select the 
  (Tempo) field in the MAIN mode and press the [WINDOW] 
key to open the Tempo Change window and set the Tempo change field to ON. 
When you turn the tempo change feature on, the 
  (Tempo) field in the MAIN page will be displayed as below. 
The tempo display on the left is the original tempo set for the sequence. On the right, the tempo you changed 
with the tempo change event will be displayed. The sequence will actually be played at the tempo in the right. 
To move to the STEP EDIT mode, press [F2] (EDIT) key in the Tempo Change window.
Setting the loop for a sequence 
By default, the MPC1000 has the sequence loop feature on. It is useful when you create a short sequence. With 
the sequence loop feature, you can overdub a new performance while playing back a sequence repeatedly. 
However, when you are working on a long song, created as a single sequence, it may be better to loop only the 
part of the song that needs to be changed. Also, when you wish to play freely without worrying about the bars or 
times, it is better to turn the loop feature off. In this section you will learn how to set the loop feature.
01. In the MAIN page, select the Loop field.
You can switch the sequence loop features ON/OFF by turning the DATA wheel.
In this field, you can only set the loop at ON/OFF. You can set the start/end points of the loop in the Loop 
window.
02. Press the [WINDOW] key.
The Loop window will open. The MPC1000 will repeat the part you set in the First bar and Last bar fields.
If you set END in the Last bar field, the last bar of the sequence is always the end of the loop. Even if you edit 
a sequence and change its length, the last bar of the sequence is still the end of the loop.
The Number of bars field displays the length of the bars to loop. The Last bar field and the Number of bars 
field work together. Changing the value in the Last bar field also changes the value in the Number of bars 
field.
03. Press [F4] (CLOSE) key.
This closes the window and goes back to MAIN page.
Extending the sequence length automatically
Usually, the length of a sequence is set based on the value of the Bars field in the MAIN page. However, when 
you are recording/overdubbing with the Loop field set to OFF, the length of a sequence will be extended 
automatically. For example, when the Bars field is set to 2, If you start recording with the loop field set to OFF, 
the recording will continue after second bar until you press the [STOP] key. And the number of the bar when you 
actually pressed the [STOP] key will be set as the new length for the sequence. This is useful when you do not 
know the length of the song. 
Tips: When you press the [PLAY START] key when the First bar is not 1, the MPC1000 will start the playback 
from the bar set in the First bar field instead of from the beginning of the sequence. Sequence feature
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-17-


Changing the default settings
Some settings for a sequence (such as number of the bars, time, tempo, loop) are automatically set to the 
default setting when you create a new sequence. You can change the default settings for your convenience.
01. In the MAIN page, set the Loop field, 
  field, Tsig field, Bars field as you like. 
02. Select the Sq field and press the [WINDOW] key.
The Sequence window will open.
03. Press [F3] (USER) key.
 The User Default window will open.
04. Press [F5] (DO IT) key.
The values currently set in the Loop, 
 , Tsig, Bars field in the MAIN page will be saved as default setting.
The Next time you create a new sequence, these values are applied. 
Changing the sequence name
01. In the Sq field in the MAIN page, select a sequence that you wish to change the name 
of. 
02. Press the [WINDOW] key.
The Sequence windows will open.
03. In the Sequence name field, enter the new name.
For more information for setting the name, see the “Setting the name” section on Page 8.
04. Press [F4] (CLOSE) key.
It closes the window and goes back to MAIN page.
Changing the default name for a sequence
Usually, when you create a new sequence, the name will be set to the default name as “Sequence## (## will be 
the sequence number)” automatically. You can change the default name.
01. In the MAIN page, select the Sq field.
02. Press the [WINDOW] key.
The Sequence window will open.
03. In the Default name field, enter the new name.
For more information for setting the name, see the “Setting the name” section on Page 8.
04. Press [F4] (CLOSE) key.
This closes the window and goes back to the MAIN page.
Copying a sequence
You can copy a sequence to another sequence.
01. In the Sq field in MAIN mode, select a sequence to copy. 
02. Press the [WINDOW] key.
The Sequence window will open.
03. Press [F5] (COPY) key.
The Copy Sequence window will open. 
04. In the Sq field (below), select a sequence to copy to.
05. Press [F3] (DO IT) key. 
Copying the sequence will start. To cancel the operation, press the [F4] (CANCEL) key.Sequence feature
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-18-


Deleting a sequence
You can remove a sequence from the memory of the MPC1000. 
01. In the Sq field in MAIN mode, select a sequence to delete. 
02. Press the [WINDOW] key.
The Sequence window will open.
03. Press [F2] (DELETE) key.
The Delete Sequence window will open.
04. Press [F5] (DO IT) key. 
That deletes the selected sequence and changes its name to “unused”.
Deleting all sequences
You can delete all the sequence data in the memory at one time.
01. In the MAIN mode, select the Sq field and press the [WINDOW] key. 
The Sequence window will open.
02. Press [F2] (DELETE) key.
The Delete Sequence window will open.
03. Press [F3] (ALL SQ) key.
The Delete ALL Sequences window will open.
04. Press [F5] (DO IT) key.
That deletes all the sequences and changes their names to “unused”.
Handling the duration (the length of a note) at the loop boundary
When you are recording a sequence in the loop mode, you can specify how the MPC1000 should operate when it 
reaches the boundary of the loop (it reaches the end of the sequence and jumps back to the beginning) while 
you are holding a pad. 
01. Press the [MODE] key and then the [PAD 10] (OTHER) key.
That switches to the OTHER mode.
02. Press [F2] (MISC.) key. 
The MISC. page will be displayed. 
03. Select the Truncate duration field and select the option how to handle the duration 
between loops. 
TO SEQUENCE LENGTH	 The MPC1000 records as played up to sequence length. 
TO SEQUENCE END	 The MPC1000 cuts the note at the end of the sequence even if you hit the pad. 
You cannot record beyond the loop. 
AS PLAYED	 The MPC1000 records your performance as it is played.Sequence feature
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-19-


Track features
Setting the track type
You can set the track type in the Type field in the MAIN page. 
There are two types of track: DRUM and MIDI. They are called DRUM track and MIDI track respectively. 
Below are the differences of each track type.
DRUM	 Select this track type when you play the MPC1000’s internal sampler by hitting pads. The DRUM 
track data will be managed per pad. 
MIDI	 Select this track type when you use the MPC1000 as a MIDI sequencer with external MIDI devices 
(MIDI keyboard etc…). The MIDI track data is managed per MIDI note event. For more information, 
see the “MIDI sequencer feature” section on Page 22.
Selecting a program
You can select the program to play for the track. You can select a program loaded in the memory by turning the 
DATA wheel in the Pgm field in the MAIN page. If you set it to OFF, the MPC1000 does not play internal 
programs. When you wish to use the MPC1000 to play the external sound module, set this field to OFF. 
Track mute feature
You can set the track mute in the Mute field in the MAIN page. 
You can set the mute for each track separately. For example, let’s assume you have recorded a Piano solo on 
track 1 and another piano solo on track 2. By setting either track to mute, you can compare these two piano 
solos and choose the better one. If you set the mute ON for a track, the MPC1000 won’t play back that track.
Tips: With the [TRACK MUTE] key, you can set the track mute with a pad. For more information, see the “Setting 
the track mute with pads” section on page 41. 
Setting the MIDI Output channel
You can set the MIDI out put channel in the MIDI field in the MAIN page.
You can set the MIDI output channel for a track. You need to set the output channel when you use the MPC1000 
to play an external MIDI sound module. You do not have to set this when you are using the internal sampler. 
The MPC1000 has two MIDI outputs. Channels1A through 16A will be sent out via MIDI OUT A, and MIDI 
channels 1B through 16B will be sent out via MIDI OUT B.
Changing a track name
01. In the Tr field in the MAIN page, select a track you wish to change the name on.
02. Press the [WINDOW] key.
The Track window will open.
03. In the Track name field, enter the new name. 
For more information for setting the name, see the “Setting the name” section on Page 8.
04. Press [F4] (CLOSE) key.
This closes the window and goes back to the MAIN page.Sequence feature
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-20-


Changing the default name for a track 
Usually, when you create a new track, the name will be automatically set as default “Track## (## indicates track 
number). You can change the default track name. 
01. In the MAIN page, select the Tr field.
02. Press the [WINDOW] key.
The Track window will open.
03. In the Default name field, enter the new name.
For more information about setting the name, see the “Setting the name” section on Page 8.
04. Press [F4] (CLOSE) key.
This closes the window and goes back to the MAIN page.
Copying a track
You can copy a track to another track.
01. In the Tr field of the MAIN mode, select a track to copy. 
02. Press the [WINDOW] key.
The Track window will open.
03. Press [F5] (COPY) key.
The Copy Track window will open.
04. In the Tr field (below), select a track to copy to.
05. Press [F3] (DO IT) key.
Copying the sequence will start. To cancel the operation, press [F4] (CANCEL) key. 
Deleting a track
You can remove a track from the memory of the MPC1000. 
1. In the Tr field in MAIN mode, select a track to delete. 
2. Press the [WINDOW] key.
The Track window will open.
3. Press [F2] (DELETE) key.
The Delete Track window will open.
4. Press [F5] (DO IT) key. 
That deletes the selected track and changes its name to “unused”.
Deleting all tracks
You can delete all the track data in the memory at one time.
01. In the MAIN mode, select the Tr field and press the [WINDOW] key. 
The Track window will open.
02. Press [F2] (DELETE) key.
The Delete Track window will open.
03. Press [F3] (ALL TR) key.
The Delete ALL Tracks window will open.
04. Press [F5] (DO IT) key.
That deletes all the tracks and changes their names to “unused”.Sequence feature
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-21-


Selecting a track with function keys
You can select a track in the Tr field in the MAIN page. You can also select a track using [ F3] (TR -) key and [F4] 
(TR +) keys. With [F3] (TR - ) and [ F4] (TR +) keys, you can select a track without moving a cursor to the Tr field.
Solo function of a track
When you are working on a sequence that has many tracks, it is useful to use the solo function to play back 
only the selected track. For example, when you are recording various instruments on several tracks, you can 
check the contents of each track with this feature. 
01. In the Tr field in the MAIN page, select a track you wish to play back.
02. Press [F6] (SOLO) key and start recording/playback of the sequence. 
The [F6] (SOLO) key will be highlighted and the MPC1000 plays back only the selected track and mutes all 
the other tracks.
03. To cancel the solo, press [F6] (SOLO) key again.
The MPC1000 plays back all tracks.
MIDI sequencer features
When you are playing the internal sound module with the pads, you can start recording just by selecting the desired 
program in the Pgm field in the MAIN page. However, the MPC1000 can be used as a MIDI sequencer. 
By connecting an external MIDI keyboard to it, you can record the data from the keyboard and control the external 
sound module.
About MIDI...
MIDI is a standard for transferring the performance data between electronic instruments regardless of the 
manufacturer. Devices are connected using a special cable called MIDI cable. For example, when you connect 
the keyboard’s MIDI OUT to MIDI IN of the MIDI sound module, the performance data you made with your 
keyboard will be sent to the MIDI sound module, which plays the sound. MIDI can transfer only the performance 
data, not the actual sound. To transfer as much data as possible through one MIDI cable, there are MIDI 
channels. By using a MIDI channel, you can transfer different performance data to each channel separately. 
You can transfer the performance data to up to 16 channels. The MIDI channel is very important when you 
handle MIDI.
You must set the same MIDI channels for both the keyboard and the sound module even if you play the sound 
from the keyboard. For example, if the keyboard’s output channel is set to 1, the sound module’s input channel 
should also be 1. Some sound modules can receive several channels. In that case, you can assign a separate 
instrument (Piano, Bass, Strings etc…) to each separate channel. 
About MIDI sequencer
A MIDI sequencer is a device that can record and play back MIDI data. The MPC1000 can be used as a MIDI 
sequencer.
When you connect an external MIDI keyboard to use the MPC1000 as a MIDI sequencer, connect the 
keyboard’s MIDI OUT to MPC1000’s MIDI IN, and the MPC1000’s MIDI OUT to the external MIDI sound module’s 
MIDI IN. Thus, you can record the keyboard performance to the MPC1000 and play sounds from the MIDI sound 
module.Sequence feature
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-22-


In this section, you will learn how to record the performance data from the external MIDI keyboard to the 
MPC1000 and play sounds from the external sound module. 
01. Connect the external MIDI devices as described in the “Connecting MPC1000 to External 
Audio/MIDI device” section on page 4.
Connect the MIDI OUT of the keyboard to the MPC1000’s MIDI IN, and the MPC1000’s MIDI OUT to MIDI IN 
of the external sound module.
Note: You may still want to connect the MPC1000’s stereo out to a mixer so that you can hear a metronome 
sound even when you use the MPC1000 as a MIDI sequencer.
02. In the Type field, select MIDI.
03. In the Pgm field, select OFF.
You can select a program and play the external MIDI device while playing an internal program, but here, set 
this field to OFF to play the external MIDI module.
04. In the Midi field, select a MIDI channel.
Here, you set the MIDI channel to send the MIDI data on. Set the same channel as the one on of the sound 
module.
Tips: By default the MPC1000’s input MIDI channel is set to receive all MIDI channels, so you don’t have to set 
the channel to the keyboard’s MIDI channel. 
05. Play the keyboard to make sure the sound module works. 
If you don’t hear any sound, check the connection and make sure you have the correct settings for the 
keyboard and the sound module.
06. Press the [PLAY START] key while holding the [REC] key.
The recording starts after 4 counts.
07. Play the keyboard in time with the click sound.
By default, sequence is set to 2 bars. After recording for 2 bars, the MPC1000 will start playing back the 
recorded performance. If you make another performance with pads, you can add the performance to the 
currently recorded one. This is called “over dub”.
08. You can stop over dub by pressing the [STOP] key.
09. Press the  [PLAY] key to play the recorded performance. 
10. If you don’t like the performance, you can start the new recording by pressing the [REC] 
+ [PLAY START] key.
It cancels the currently recorded performance data and starts the new recording.
11. To add the recording to the already recorded data, press the [PLAY START] key while 
holding [OVER DUB] key.
This plays back the currently recorded performance and you can add the new performance by hitting pads. 
Tips: If you select another sequence in the Sq field, you can record a new performance separately. By playing 
back those sequences, you can create one whole song.
Tips: You can use the other useful features for sequence recording (see page 12) like when you record the 
performance data from pads. 
Tips: for more information on how to connect a MIDI keyboard with sound module to the MPC1000, see the 
“connecting MPC1000 to a MIDI keyboard with sound module” section on page 46.Sequence feature
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-23-


Handling the sustain pedal
In this section, you will learn how to set the option to handle the sustain pedal information when you are 
connecting the MPC1000 to the external MIDI keyboard to use it as a MIDI sequencer.
Sustain pedal data is a MIDI event used to make the sound continue after a key on the keyboard is released. 
Usually a foot switch controls this data. The keyboard sends out Sustain pedal data as separate event from 
note event, so normally the sequencer recognize this data as separate data. However, when you are 
overdubbing on a short sequence loop, it might be better to convert the sustain pedal data to the recorded 
note’s duration (the length of the note).. For example, if you record the sustain pedal data as it is, once you 
press the sustain pedal during the loop, the sustain will be applied to all the data after that. If you convert the 
sustain pedal data to a note’s duration, the movement of the sustain pedal will not affect the other notes. 
Thus, the MPC1000 is set to convert the sustain pedal data to a note’s duration by default, but you can change 
the setting to record the data as the sustain pedal data. 
01. Press the [MODE] key and then the [PAD 10] (OTHER) key.
It switches to OTHER mode.
02. Press [F2] (MISC.) key.
The MISC. page will be displayed.
03. In the Sustain pedal to duration field, select the option how to handle sustain pedal.
YES	 The MPC1000 converts the sustain pedal information into duration.
NO	 The MPC1000 records the sustain pedal information as it is.Sequence feature
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-24-


Chapter 4 : Editing sequences
There are two ways to edit sequences. You can select a region and edit all events at one time, or you can edit each 
event in detail. In this section, you will learn about the SEQ EDIT mode, where you can select a region to edit your 
event(s). 
Selecting a region within a track to edit
You can edit the events within a region that you set in the track. This is done in the EVENTS page of the SEQ EDIT 
mode, which can be accessed by pressing the [MODE] key and then the [PAD 13].
Selecting a region for the editing
In the EVENTS page, there are 3 different editing options in the Edit field: COPY, MOVE and TRANSPOSE. The 
procedure to select the editing region is the same for all three options. Let us begin with the selection of the 
editing region. 
Setting the time
01. Select the Time field in the EVENTS page of the SEQ EDIT mode.
In the Time field, you can set the start and end points of the editing region. For example, to edit the first bar of 
a 2-bar sequence, set this field to “001.01.00 - 002.01.00”. In this case, the event at the “002.01.00” point 
will not be edited. 
If you set the end point “002.01.00”, like in this 
picture, the area right before this point will be 
included in the area.
Setting the pad/note number 
01. Select the Notes field in the EVENTS page of the SEQ EDIT mode.
The display of the Notes field depends on the type of the track that you have selected. 
When DRUM track is selected: 
In default, the field is set to ALL, which means the MPC1000 will edit all the pads. If you wish to edit only a 
specific pad, position the cursor in the Notes field and hit the desired pad. The pad number will be displayed in 
the Notes field. You can select several pads. If you hit a different pad by mistake, you can cancel the selection 
by hitting the pad again. To restart the pad selection, turn the DATA wheel to the left. The value in the Note field 
will be reset to ALL so that you can select the pad that you want from the beginning.
When MIDI track is selected: 
The display changes to show the selected region by note number. 
You will set the upper limit and the lower limit of the note in the field, The 
MPC1000 will edit only the events within the note numbers set in this field. Editing sequences
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-25-002.01.00
001.04.95 001.04.94 002.01.01 001.04.93EVENT EVENT EVENT EVENT EVENT



Copying events (COPY)
You can copy events within the selected region to another place. The source data will remain in the original 
location. 
01. Select the Edit field in the EVENT page of the SEQ EDIT mode, and select COPY.
The various fields necessary for the copying will be displayed.
02. In the Time field and the Notes field, select the region and notes that you wish to copy. 
03. In the From sq field and the Tr field in the right, select the source sequence and track. 
04. In the To sq and the Tr field in the right, select the destination sequence and track. 
Tips: In the EVENTS page, the From sq, Tr field and the To sq, Tr field only display the sequence number and the 
track number respectively, but pressing the [WINDOW] key when the cursor is in the From sq,Tr or To sq,Tr 
field, will bring up the Select window, where you can browse the sequence or track name to select. 
05. In the Mode field, specify how to copy the data to the destination. 
REPLACE	 The MPC1000 will overwrite the destination with the source data. The data that is already in 
the destination will be removed. 
MERGE	 The MPC1000 will merge the source data with the data that is already in the destination. 
06. In the Start field, set the start point of destination time.
The MPC1000 will start the copy to the time set here. 
07. In the Copies field, set the number of times to copy. 
To copy the same phrase repeatedly, enter the number of copies in the Copies field. You can copy it 
repeatedly with one operation.  
08. Press the [F6] (DO IT) key. 
The MPC1000 will start copying the data. 
Moving events (MOVE)
You can move events within the selected region to another location. Unlike the copy function, this function will 
remove the source data from the original location. 
01. Select the Edit field in the EVENT page of the SEQ EDIT mode, and select MOVE.
The various fields necessary for moving will be displayed.
02. In the Time field and the Notes field, select the region that you wish to move. 
03. In the From sq field and the Tr field on the right, select the source sequence and track. 
04. In the To sq and the Tr field on the right, select the destination sequences and tracks. 
 Tips: In the EVENTS page, the From sq,Tr field and the To sq,Tr field only display the sequence number and the 
track number respectively, but pressing the [WINDOW] key when the cursor is in the From sq,Tr or To sq,Tr 
field, will bring up the Select window, where you can browse the sequence or track name to select. Editing sequences
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-26-


05. In the Mode field, specify how to move the data to the destination. 
REPLACE	 The MPC1000 will overwrite the destination with the source data. The data that is already in 
the destination will be removed. 
MERGE	 The MPC1000 will merge the source data with the data that is already in the destination. 
06. In the Start field, set the start point of destination time.
The MPC1000 will start moving the event to the time selected here. 
07. Press the [F6] (DO IT) key. 
The MPC1000 will start moving the event. 
Changing the key of the event (TRANSPOSE)
You can transpose (change the key of) the note events. This edit only applies to the note events of a  MIDI 
track. It does not change DRUM track data. 
01. Select the Edit field in the EVENT page of the SEQ EDIT mode, and select TRANSPOSE.
The various fields necessary for the transpose will be displayed.
02. In the Time field and the Notes field, select the region that you wish to edit. 
03. In the Edit sq field and the Tr field on the right, select the sequence and track that you 
wish to edit. 
In the Edit sq field and the Tr field, you can select ALL by turning the DATA wheel. When you select ALL, the 
MPC1000 will transpose all the sequences and tracks. 
Note: This edit only applies to the note events of a MIDI track. It does not change DRUM track data.
04. In the Amount field, set the amount of the transpose. 
You can set by semitones. 
05. Press the [F6] (DO IT) key.
The MPC1000 will start the transpose. 
Selecting the editing region by bar
You can edit the sequence by bar. This is done in the BARS page in the SEQ EDIT mode, which can be accessed 
by pressing the [MODE] key and then the [PAD 13].
Copying bars (COPY)
You can copy bars within the selected region to another place. The length of the destination sequence will be 
extended to add the copied bars. 
01. Select the Edit field in the BARS page of the SEQ EDIT mode, and select COPY.
The various fields necessary for copying will be displayed.
02. In the From sq field, select the source sequence. 
03. In the To sq, select the destination sequence. Editing sequences
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-27-


Tips: In the EVENTS page, the From sq, Tr field and the To sq, Tr field only display the sequence number and the 
track number respectively, but pressing the [WINDOW] key when the cursor is in the From sq,Tr or To sq,Tr 
field, will bring up the Select window, where you can browse the sequence or track name to select. 
04. In the First bar field, select the first bar of the source sequence. 
05. In the Last bar field, select the last bar of the source sequence. 
06. In the After bar field, select the destination.
The selected bars will be copied to the end of the bar set here.
07. In the Copies field, select the number of times to copy the data. 
To copy the same phrase repeatedly, enter the number of copies in the Copies filed. You can copy it 
repeatedly with one operation.
08. Press the [F6] (DO IT) key. 
The MPC1000 will start copying the bars. 
Inserting a bar (INSERT)
To insert empty bars in the sequence, proceed as follows:
01. Select the Edit field in the BARS page of the SEQ EDIT mode, and select INSERT. 
The various fields necessary for inserting bars will be displayed. 
02. In the Sq field, select the sequence that you wish to insert the bars. 
03. In the After bar field, select the location to insert the bars in. 
The selected bars will be inserted at the end of the bar set here. 
04. In the Number of bars field, set the number of bars to insert. 
05. In the Time signature field, select the time signature of the bars to insert. 
06. Press the [F6] (DO IT) key.
The number of empty bars selected will be inserted at the selected location. 
Deleting a bar (DELETE)
To delete the selected bar(s) in the sequence, proceed as follows: 
01. Select the Edit field in the BARS page of the SEQ EDIT mode, and select DELETE
The fields necessary for deleting the bars will be displayed. 
02. In the Sq field, select the bars to delete.
03. In the First bar field, specify the first bar to delete.
04. In the Last bar field, specify the last bar to delete. 
05. Press the [F6] (DO IT) key. 
The selected bar(s) will be deleted.Editing sequences
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-28-


Changing the order of tracks (TRACK MOVE)
When you are creating a song by combining several short sequences, normally you would use the SONG feature to 
play back sequence in the specified order. The MPC1000 can convert the song data with short sequences to one 
long sequence. To do this, you need to arrange the order of the tracks in each sequence. In this section, you will 
learn how to use the track move function that allows you to change the order of the tracks in a sequence. 
You can set the track move in the TrMOVE (Track move) page of the SEQ EDIT mode, which can be accessed by 
pressing the [MODE] key and then the [PAD 13].
01. In the SEQ EDIT mode, press the [F3] (TrMOVE) key. 
The TrMOVE (Track move) page will be displayed.
02. In the Sq field, select the track that you wish to change the order.
03. In the Reference sq field, select the sequence to be used as the reference when 
changing the order. 
For example, if you want other tracks to follow the order in sequence 01, you should select sequence 01 in 
the Reference sq field. 
04. Using the down cursor key, move the cursor to the track list. 
05. You can scroll through the list by turning the DATA wheel. 
Select the track that you wish to move.
06. Press the [F6] (SELECT) key. 
This selects the track.
To select a track again, press the [F5] (CANCEL) key. 
07. Select the destination by turning the DATA wheel. 
The list will scroll with the track selected in steps 5 and 6 fixed. 
Refer to the list on the left to select the destination position. 
08. Press the [F6] (MOVE) key. 
The track will move to the selected location and the order will be changed. Editing sequences
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-29-


Chapter 5 : Step editing
There are two ways to edit sequences. You can select a region and edit several events at one time, or you can edit 
each event in detail. In this section, you will learn about the STEP EDIT mode, where you can edit each event in 
detail. 
About step edit
Each track has the performance data you made with pads, or MIDI note information from an external MIDI 
keyboard. The Step Edit function allows you to edit each event separately. There are other types of events than 
Pad and MIDI note information. There are also events specific to the MPC1000, such as Q-Link slider information 
and tempo information, and MIDI events such as pitch bend and modulation wheel. 
Step edit is done in the STEP EDIT mode, which is accessed by pressing the [MODE] key and then [PAD 14].
 
Screens
Now field
The time display on the upper left corner on the screen is the Now field. The Now field always displays the 
current position of a sequence. This is the same as the Now field in the MAIN page. 
View field
You can set the type of events to display in the event list in this field. The event list displays only the events set 
in this field. It is useful when you wish to edit only specific events. 
Event list
The event list is displayed below the Now field and the View field. It lists the events within the active track. 
Event time field
The event time field is displayed to the left of the event list. It displays the positions of the events within the 
track.
Event field
The Event field is displayed to the right of the event time field. The display differs depending on the type of 
event. You can change the value by moving the cursor. 
Basic operation 
Event list 
When the cursor is in the Now field or View field, pressing the down cursor key moves the cursor to the event 
list. 
You can scroll through the event list with the up and down cursor keys. When the cursor is in the event time 
field, you can scroll through the list by turning the DATA wheel. 
When the cursor is in the event time field, pressing the left cursor key moves the cursor to the Now field. 
In the event list, you can select several events at one time by pressing the down cursor key while holding the 
[SHIFT] key. Step editing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
-30-


[F1] (T.C.) key
This key works the same as the [F1] (T.C.) key in the MAIN page. You can set the timing correction. For more 
information, see the “Timing correct feature” section on page 13.
[F2] (TRACK) key
Pressing this key displays the window to change tracks until you release the key. You can select a track 
without switching back to the MAIN page. 
[F6] (PLAY) key
Pressing this key plays back the selected event. 
Editing method 
In the step edit page, the events in the track are listed. You can select the event with up/down cursor keys and 
the field with right/left cursor keys. You can change the value in the field by turning the DATA wheel. 
Events
Pad event
This is the event that is recorded when you hit the pads in the DRUM track. 
P (pad) field
You can set the pad number in this field.
Note variation field
In the above picture, the area that displays “T” is the note variation field. You can select the type of note 
variation data to record with the Q-Link sliders.
T	 Tune (pitch)
F	 Filter
L	 Layer
A	 Attack time
D	 Decay time
About the note variation
Note variation data, which is used for the Q-Link sliders or 16LEVELS function, is the information used to 
control the sound of a pad, and is saved in the track along with the pad event. With the note variation data, you 
can switch the sounds of the pad even when you are playing back the same pad. 
Note variation value field
In this field, displayed to the right of the note variation field, you can set the note variation value. 
D (duration) field
You can specify the length of a note. 
V (velocity) field
You can set the velocity of the pad.Step editing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
-31-


Tempo change event
Tempo change event is used to change the tempo within the sequence. 
The tempo change event is different from other events. It does not belong to a specific track. 
By selecting TEMPO in the View field, you can display the tempo change event information separately, 
regardless of the selected track. Even when you have selected ALL EVENTS in the View field, the tempo 
change event will not be displayed in the event list.
% field
You can set the amount of the tempo change. 
Initial tempo field, Current tempo field
The field on the left with a note symbol is the initial tempo field. The field on the right is the current tempo field. 
The initial tempo field displays the original tempo set in the tempo field of the sequence, the Current tempo field 
displays the new tempo changed by the setting in the % field. 
Effect select event
This event is used to switch the effect settings within the sequence. 
The events described above are specific events to the MPC1000.
Below are the MIDI events that you use when using the MPC1000 as a MIDI sequencer. 
Note: How a MIDI event effects an external sound module depends on the specification of the sound module. 
For more information about the effect of each MIDI event, see the operation manual of your sound module.
Note event
This is a MIDI note event.
N (Note number) field
You can set the note number in this field. A note number indicates the location on a keyboard as a numbers, with 
the middle C of the piano as note number 60.
D (duration) field
You can specify how long a note is held (length of a note). In the MIDI standard, pressing a key is called “Note 
on”, releasing a key is called “Note off”. In this field, you will set the time from Note on to Note off. 
V (velocity) field
You can set the velocity of the note event. In the MIDI standard, the speed used to trigger a note is called 
velocity. The velocity is shown in 127 steps, with 127 the maximum. 
Pitch bend event
You can set the pitch bend. Normally this event is used to control the pitch in real time. 
Control change event
The control change, which is used for various applications, is the most versatile event in the MIDI standard. 
The control change event consists of a control number, which determines the type of the control change, and 
the control change value. 
CC field
You can select the type of the control change in this field, and the control change value in the field on the right.Step editing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
-32-


Program change event
You can set the program change. This event is normally used to switch the sound of an external sound module.
If program numbers are assigned to programs in the internal sampler section, you can switch the programs that 
are assigned to the track within the sequence. 
Channel pressure event
You can set the channel pressure. Normally, a Channel pressure event is used for aftertouch. This feature 
allows you to control the sound depending on the pressure used to press the keyboard. 
Poly pressure event
The Poly pressure event is used for aftertouch much like the channel pressure event, however the Poly 
pressure event can be set to different values for each individual note.
Exclusive data event
Exclusive data event is used to set the sound module, or to give a more detailed setting to the sound module, 
which cannot be done using control changes. The MPC1000 can edit the exclusive data as well as record and 
play them back. However, the type of exclusive data you can receive and their functions are determined by 
each manufacturer. 
Editing the exclusive data 
An exclusive data event displays only the size of the event data and you cannot edit this event directly. To edit 
the exclusive data, you need to select the desired exclusive data event and press the [WINDOW] key to display 
the Edit Exclusive Event window. 
The data of each byte will be displayed. You can scroll through the display with right/left cursor keys. 
Select the byte that needs change, and change the setting with the DATA wheel. 
To change the length of the exclusive data, press the [F2] (F7 EOX) key. Pressing the [F2] (F7 EOX) key enters 
“F7”, which indicates the end of the exclusive data, to the selected byte.
Pressing the [F5] (SEND) key sends out the currently set exclusive data. 
When you finish editing, press the [F4] (CLOSE) key and close the window. 
Copying/pasting an event
To copy the selected event and paste it to another location, proceed as follows. 
01. In the event list, select the event that you wish to copy. 
You can select several events by pressing the down cursor key while holding the [SHIFT] key.
02. Press the [F3] (C &P) key and the [F4] (COPY) key at the same time. 
When you press the [F3] (C &P) key, the display of the [F3] and the [F4] key will change to (COPY) and 
(PASTE) respectively until you release the key. 
03. In the Now field, select the time position that you wish to paste the event to.
04. Press the [F3] (C &P) key and the [F5] (PASTE) key at the same time. 
The selected event will be pasted. Step editing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
-33-


Deleting an event
To delete the selected event, proceed as follows. 
01. In the event list, select the event that you wish to delete. 
You can select several events by pressing the down cursor key while holding the [SHIFT] key.
02. Press the [F4] (DELETE) key. 
The selected event will be deleted. 
Entering an event (Step recording)
In the STEP EDIT mode, when you hit a pad, or when the MPC1000 receives MIDI data from an external device, you 
can record the event in the current time position (the time displayed in the Now field). Move the event to the desired 
time position by moving through the event list with the up/down cursor keys, or by setting the time position in the 
Now field, and you can add events to the desired time position one by one. This method, recording each event 
individually when MPC1000 is in the stop mode, is called step recording. 
01. In the STEP EDIT mode, Press the [REC] key or the [OVER DUB] key.
The LED of the [OVER DUB] key will be lit, which indicates that you can now enter events by hitting a pad. 
02. Move through the list with the up/down cursor keys, or select the Now field, to select 
the time position to insert event. 
03. Hit a pad.
The event of the pad will be recorded. 
04. Press the [STOP] key.
The LED of the [OVER DUB] key will be turned off and you can finish the step recording.
Detailed setting for step recording
Pressing the [WINDOW] key in the STEP EDIT mode brings up the Step Edit Options window, where you can 
make various settings for the step recording. 
Auto step increment field
If you select YES, the MPC1000 will automatically 
update the sequence according to the setting of the 
timing correct when it receives a pad event or a note 
event.
Duration of recorded notes field
You can determines how the length that a pad (MIDI keyboard) is pressed affects the event to recorded during 
step recording.
AS PLAYED	 The length that a pad (MIDI keyboard) is pressed will be applied to the event. When you hit a 
pad (MIDI keyboard), the metronome sound will start automatically. Refer to the metronome 
sound to set the length to press a key. When you release a pad (MIDI keyboard), the length 
that a key was pressed will be entered in the D (duration) field. 
TC VALUE%	 When set to 100%, the value set in the timing correct will be entered in the D (duration) field, 
regardless of the length that you actually pressed the pad (MIDI keyboard). Selecting the TC 
VALUE% will display the field, where you can set the percentage of the duration to apply to 
the current timing correct value. (Ex. 50% will set duration to one-half timing correct value.)Step editing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
-34-



Inserting an event
During the step recording, you can enter events using the insert function as well as using pads and MIDI 
keyboard. 
01. Move to the time position that you wish to insert the event, and press the [F5] (INSERT) 
key. 
The Insert Event window will open.
02. In the Type field, select the event to insert, and press the [F5] (DO IT) key.
The selected event will be inserted. Step editing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
-35-


Chapter 6 : Song mode
In the SONG mode, you can set the order of multiple sequences and play them in a series. The SONG mode is 
useful when you are creating a song by combining short sequences. You can check the structure of an entire song 
while working, so you can finish the song easily. You cannot record the performance in the SONG mode, you can 
convert the song that you created in the SONG mode to one long sequence so that you can record/edit it like you 
would a normal sequence. 
Structure of a song
The MPC1000 can handle up to 20 songs. Each song has 250 
steps. You can create a song by assigning sequences to each 
step in the list. For each step, you can assign a sequence, and 
also set the number of times the MPC1000 should repeat the 
sequence. You can create a song in the SONG mode, which can 
be accessed by pressing the [MODE] key and then the [PAD 16].
Screens
Now field
The time display on the upper left corner on the screen is the Now field. The Now field always displays the 
current position of a sequence. This is the same as the Now field in the MAIN page. 
Song field
You can set the song number in this field. The song name will be displayed to the right of the number. If there is 
an unused song, it is displayed as (unused). 
Step list
The list that is displayed below the Now field and the Song field is the step list, which is used to assign the 
sequences to each step. Pressing the down cursor key when the Now field or the Song field is selected moves 
the cursor to the step list. When there are many steps with different sequences assigned, you can scroll 
through the list with the up/down cursor keys. Pressing the left cursor key in the Step field of the step list moves 
the cursor to the Now field. 
Step field
This field displays the step number. You can scroll through the list by turning the DATA wheel. 
Sequence field
You can assign the sequences in this field by turning the DATA wheel. 
Reps field
You can set the number of times to repeat the sequence. 
Tempo field
Displays the tempo of the selected sequence. You can change the tempo of the sequence, but if you are using 
the same sequence in another step, the tempo of that sequence will be changed as well. 
Bars field
Displays the number of bars of the selected sequence. This field only displays the number of bars, you cannot 
make any changes in this field. Song mode
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
-36-Song20
Song03
Song02
Song01
Step001 Sequence
Step002 Sequence
Step003 Sequence
Step250 Sequence


Creating a song
01. Press the [MODE] key and then the [PAD 16] (SONG). The SONG page will be displayed. 
02. In the Song field, select a song whose name is (unused). 
03. Move the cursor to (end of song) and select the sequence to play first using the DATA 
wheel. 
Turning the DATA wheel creates the new step and you can select a sequence. Then the new song will be 
created and its name will change from (unused) to Song## (## indicates the song number). 
04. In the Reps field, set the times to repeat a sequence.
The MPC1000 will repeat the sequence the number of times set here before starting to play the next step. 
1 – 99	 The MPC1000 will repeat the sequence the selected number of times.
HOLD	 The MPC1000 will repeat the sequence until you press the [F4] (SUDDEN) or the [F6] (NEXT) key.
 
If you set the Reps field to 0, the MPC1000 will finish the play back after the previous step. It will not play the 
next step. 
05. Select the (end of song) field by pressing the down cursor key, and select the sequence 
that you want played back next.
Assign the sequences in the desired order by repeating the steps 03. and 04. 
06. Press the [PLAY START] key.
The assigned sequence will be played in the selected order. 
Deleting a step
To delete a step in the list, proceed as follows. 
01. Select the step that you wish to delete. 
You can select the step by using the up/down cursor keys in the step list. 
02. Press the [F5] (DELETE) key. 
The selected step will be deleted and the following steps will be moved forward.
Inserting a step
To insert a step in a song, proceed as follows. 
01. In the Step list, select a step that you wish to insert a new step into.
The new step will be inserted before the selected step.
02. Press [F6] (INSERT) key. 
A new step with the same contents as the select step will be inserted right before the selected step.
Playing a song 
You can play the song by pressing the [PLAY START] key. To play from the middle of the song, select the position 
that you wish to start the playback, using the cursor, and press the [PLAY] key. 
During the playback, the function key will change as follows. 
[F4] (SUDDEN) key
If you press this key during the playback, the MPC1000 will skip to the next step before it finishes the current 
sequence. 
[F6] (NEXT) key
If you press this key during the play back, the MPC1000 will skip to the next step after it finishes playing back 
the current sequence regardless of the number of repeats in the Reps field. 
Tips: If HOLD is selected for a step in the Reps field, the MPC1000 will not go to the next step until you press the 
[F4] (SUDDEN) key or the [F6] (NEXT) key. Song mode
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
-37-


Other features in the SONG mode
Changing the song name
01. In the Song field of the SONG page, select a song that you wish to change the name of. 
02. Press the [WINDOW] key.
The Song window will open.
03. In the Song name field, enter the new name.
For more information for setting the name, see the “Setting names” section on Page 8.
04. Press the [F4] (CLOSE) key.
It closes the window and goes back to the SONG page.
Copying a song
To copy a song to another song, proceed as follows.
01. In the Song field of the SONG mode, select a song that you wish to copy. 
02. Press the [WINDOW] key.
The Song window will open.
03. Press the [F5] (COPY) key.
The Copy Song window will open. 
04. In the Song field (below), select a song that you wish to copy the selected song to.
05. Press the [F3] (DO IT) key. 
The MPC1000 will start copying the song. To cancel the operation, press the [F4] (CANCEL) key instead.
Deleting a song
To remove the selected song from the memory of MPC1000, proceed as follows. 
01. In the Song field of the SONG mode, select a song that you wish to delete. 
02. Press the [WINDOW] key.
The Song window will open.
03. Press the [F2] (DELETE) key
The Delete Song window will open.
04. Press the [F5] (DO IT) key. 
This deletes the selected song and changes its name to “unused”.
Deleting all the songs
You can delete all the song data in the memory at one time. Proceed as follows.
01. In the SONG mode, select the Song field and press the [WINDOW] key. 
The Song window will open.
02. Press the [F2] (DELETE) key.
The Delete Song window will open.
03. Press the [F3] (ALL SG) key.
The Delete ALL Songs window will open.
04. Press the [F5] (DO IT) key.
All the songs will be titled (unused). Song mode
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
-38-


Setting all sequences to the same tempo
Each sequence has its own tempo. When you are creating a song in the Song mode, it is useful to change all the 
sequences to have the same tempo at once. With this feature, you can change all the sequences that you are 
using for a song to the same tempo at once. 
01. In the Tempo field of the step list, press the [WINDOW] key. 
The Tempo Change window will be displayed. 
02. Press the [F5] (FIX) key. 
The Fix Tempo window will be displayed.
03. In the Fix tempo field, select the desired tempo. 
04. Press the [F3] (DO IT) key. 
All the sequences used in the song will be set to the tempo that is set in the Fix tempo field. 
Ignoring tempo change events in a sequence
You can set the MPC1000 to ignore tempo change events that are set set in a sequence.
01. In the Tempo field in the step list, press the [WINDOW] key.
The Tempo Change window will be displayed.
02. Select a setting in the Ignore tempo change events in sequence field.
NO	 The MPC1000 will execute the tempo change events in the sequence. 
YES	 The MPC1000 will ignore the tempo change events in the sequence. 
03. Press the [F4] (CLOSE) key. 
This closes the window. 
Converting a song to a sequence
You can convert a song to one long sequence. You can record or over dub to the converted sequence in the 
MAIN mode like other sequences. You can also edit the sequence in the STEP EDIT mode or the SEQ EDIT 
mode. 
01. In the SONG mode, press the [F4] (CONVRT) key.
The Convert Song to Seq window will be displayed. 
02. In the From song field, select the song that you wish to convert.
03. In the To seq field, select the destination sequence. 
04. Press the [F5] (DO IT) key.
The song will be converted to a sequence.
Note : during song conversion
When you convert a song, the specific settings used in each track within the sequence, such as track type, 
MIDI channel setting, selection of the program, etc, will be set to the values that you set in step 1. If the track 
setting of the sequence in another step is different from those in the step 1, the song may not be converted 
properly. To avoid this, it is better to make the track settings and the order of each sequence the same. For 
more information on how to change the order of the tracks, see the “Changing the order of the tracks” section on 
page 29. Song mode
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
-39-


Chapter 7 : Functions of a pad
The MPC1000 has 16 drum pads. The pads perform various function besides making sounds when hit. 
In this section, you will learn about various functions of the pad. 
Playing with pads
By assigning the sounds in memory to a pad, you can play those sounds. 
Below are some useful functions when playing with pads. 
Switching pad banks
The MPC1000 has 16 pads, but you can play up to 64 samples  by switching between the four pad banks. 
The LED of the currently selected pad bank (from banks A through D) is turned on. By pressing the desired  
[PAD BANK] key, you can switch pad banks. 
Full level function (FULL LEVEL key)
You can control the level of the sound by the velocity used to hit the pads, but if you press the [FULL LEVEL] 
key, the MPC1000 will play the sample at the maximum level regardless of the velocity.
If you press the [FULL LEVEL] key, the LED will be lit, and the full level function will be activated. To deactivate  
this function, press the [FULL LEVEL] key again. 
16 level function (16LEVELS key)
You can play a sound using 16 parameter levels assigned to the 16 pads.
01. Hit the pad that you wish to play in 16 levels.
02. Press the [16 LEVELS] key.
The Assign 16 Levels window will be displayed. 
The Pad field displays the pad you selected in step 1. 
03. In the Type field, select the type of the parameter that you wish to play in 16 levels. 
You can select the following parameters;
VELOCITY	 The MPC1000 will play the velocity in 16 levels. 
TUNE	 The MPC1000 will play the pitch in 16 levels by semitone. 
FILTER	 The MPC1000 will play the filter cutoff value in 16 levels. 
LAYER	 The MPC1000 will play the layer value in 16 levels.
DECAY	 The MPC1000 will play the decay value in 16 levels. 
ATTACK	 The MPC1000 will play the attack value in 16 levels. 
When TUNE is selected, the Original key pad field will be displays. In this field, you can specify the pad that 
plays the original key pad. 
04. Press the [F5] (TurnON) key. 
The window closes and the LED of the [16 LEVELS] key is turned on, which indicates you can play in 16 
levels. Pressing the [16 LEVELS] key turns its LED off and deactivates the 16 levels function. 
Tips: When you select VELOCITY in the Type field, the velocity of the pad event can be played in 16 levels, but if 
you select an option other than VELOCITY, the note variation value will be played in 16 levels. The note 
variation data can change the value of a specific parameter when you play the pad’s sample. For example, if 
you select TUNE in the Type field, when you hit the pad, the note variation data of TUNE will be sent to the 
sampler section with the pad event, and the TUNE value will be changed according to the pad you played. 
During Sequence recording, the Note variation data will be recorded with the note event and you can play 
back the sequence exactly what was played. The note variation value is also used for the Q- Link slider 
function. Function of a pad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-40-


Setting the track mute with pads 
You can mute/unmute tracks in real time during playback by hitting the pads. This is useful when you have several 
instruments assigned to different tracks, so that you can play a song and switch tracks on/off using the pads while 
playing back your sequence. Pressing the [TRACK MUTE] key brings up the track mute page. 
TRACK MUTE Screen
Now field
Like the Now field in the MAIN page, this field displays the current time position of the sequence. 
Sq field
Like the Sq field in the MAIN page, you can select a sequence in this field. 
Track list 
The track list is displayed under the Now field and the Sq field. 
The track list displays the first 8 letters of the track name. The tracks are displayed according to the position of 
the pads; Track 1 on the lower left and track 16 on the upper right. You can display 16 pads at one time, but you 
can display 1 to 64 tracks by switching pad banks. The track whose track mute is set to off will be highlighted. 
Operation
Hitting a pad when the track mute page is displayed switches the track mute setting of that track instead of 
playing the sound. 
Solo function
With the Solo function, you can play back only the selected track. 
01. Hit the pad that corresponds to the track that you wish to play, while pressing the [F6] 
(SOLO) key. 
The [F6] (SOLO) will be highlighted and MPC1000 will play only the selected track while it mutes the other 
tracks. You can switch the tracks to play, by hitting a pad.
02. Pressing the [F6] (SOLO) key deactivates the solo function. 
Setting the track mute in solo mode 
Solo function switches the track mute setting temporary. Turning off the solo function resets the track mute 
settings for each track to the same status as before the solo function was activated. However, you can also 
turn off the solo function while keeping the track mute setting unchanged. With this feature, you can make a 
performance starting with many tracks followed by only a simple rhythm track and then gradually add tracks. 
Operation 
When the solo function is on, press the [F6] (SOLO) key while holding the [SHIFT] key.
The Solo function will be deactivated and the mute setting for the track set to solo will be turned off. The setting 
for other tracks will be turned on. Functions of a pad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-41-


Selecting a sequence to play with pads 
You can select a sequence that you wish to play next, by hitting the pads. This is useful for live performances, 
which change a song structure in real time. Also, you can check the relationship between sequences while you are 
working on a song with several short sequences. Pressing the [NEXT SEQ] key brings up the next sequence page.
 
NEXT SEQ Screens
Now field
Like the Now field in the MAIN page, it displays the current time position of the sequence. 
Sq field
Like the Sq field in the MAIN page, you can select a sequence in this field. 
Sequence list
The sequence  list is displayed under the Now field and the Sq field. 
The sequence list displays the first 8 letters of the sequence name. The sequences are displayed according to 
the position of the pads; Sequence 1 on the lower left and sequence 16 on the upper right. You can display 16 
pads at one time, allowing you to display 1 to 64 sequences by switching pad banks. 
Note: you cannot select a sequence between 65 and 99 using pads, but you can select them in the Sq field.
Operation
01. In the Sq field, select a sequence that you wish to play first. 
02. Start to play back the Sequence.
03. Select another sequence that you wish to play next, using a pad. 
The number and name of the selected sequence will be displayed below the Sequence list. The MPC1000 will 
switch to the next sequence after it plays the current sequence to the end.
Tips: You can change the next sequence by hitting the pads until the current sequence ends.
Tips: When no other sequence is selected, the MPC1000 will continue to playback the current sequence over and 
over.
 
Tips: You can cancel the next sequence that is displayed below the sequence list, by pressing the [F6] (CLEAR) 
key.
SUDDEN key
Normally, the MPC1000 will switch to the next sequence after it plays the current sequence to the end. 
However, you can also switch to the next sequence before the MPC1000 finishes playing back the current 
sequence by pressing the [F4] (SUDDEN) key. 
It is useful for the live performance, where you need to switch to the next phrase at a certain cue. 
01. Select the next sequence with the pads, and press the [F4] (SUDDEN) key. 
The MPC1000 will switch to the next sequence at the point the key is pressed. 
Tips: If you press the pad while holding the [F4] (SUDDEN) key, the MPC1000 will switch to the next sequence at 
the point the pad is hit. Function of a pad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-42-


HOLD key
Normally, when the next sequence is selected, the MPC1000 will switch to the next sequence after it finishes 
playing the current sequence. If you press the [F5] (HOLD) key, the MPC1000 will keep playing back the current 
sequence until you press the [F5] (HOLD) again. It is useful for the live performance, where you wish to change 
the phrase according to the response of the audience. 
01. Select the next sequence with the pad, and press the [F5] (HOLD) key. 
The key will be highlighted and the MPC1000 will keep playing back the current sequence, instead of 
switching to the next sequence. 
If you press the [F5] (HOLD) key again, the Hold function will turn off and the MPC1000 will switch to the next 
sequence after it finishes playing back the current sequence. 
Tips: If you press the [F4] (SUDDEN) key when the hold function is on, the MPC1000 will switch to the next 
sequence right away. Functions of a pad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-43-


Chapter 8 : Q-Link slider
By using the Q-Link sliders, you can control certain pad parameters (filter, tune, etc…) with a slider. 
When you hit a pad which has a Q-Link slider function assigned, the information of the slider position will be sent to 
the sampler section as note variation data. The note variation data converts the parameters value to slider position 
data, before the pad’s sample is played back. For example, when you select TUNE as a parameter, moving the 
slider sends out the tune’s note variation data to the pad and changes the sample’s tune. 
In this section, you will learn how to set the 
Q-Link sliders. This is done in the SLIDER mode, 
which can be accessed by pressing the [MODE] 
key and then the [PAD 1](SLIDER) key. 
The SLIDER mode has 2 pages, [ F1] (Q1) and 
[ F2] (Q2), and you can set the Q-Link slider 1 
and 2 separately. 
Setting the slider
01. In the Assign pad field, select the pad to which you wish to assign the slider.
You can select the pad directly by hitting it. The effect of the slider will be applied only to the selected pad. If 
you do not wish to use the Q-Link slider function for any pad, select OFF by turning the DATA wheel. 
02. In the Parameter field, select the type of the parameter you are going to make changes.
TUNE	 This controls the sample’s pitch. 
FILTER	 This controls the filter’s cutoff frequency. 
LAYER	 This switches layers.
ATTACK	 This controls the attack time of the Amp Envelope.
DECAY	 This controls the decay time of the Amp Envelope. 
03. The High range field and Low range field set the upper and lower limit of the slider. 
The value of the controlled parameter is determined by the value set here. The value depends on the type of 
the parameter selected in the Parameter field. 
TUNE (-120 to +120)	 This controls the sample’s pitch (10 equals a semitone). 
FILTER (-50 to +50)	 This offsets the cut off frequency of the currently selected filter. 
LAYER (0 to127)	 This value switches layers instead of Velocity.
ATTACK (0 to 100)	 The attack time of the envelope will be replaced with this value. 
DECAY (0 to 100)	 The decay time of the envelope will be replaced with this value. 
Recording the slider value in a sequence
If you use the Q-Link slider while recording, the note variation data will be recorded with the pad event. 
You can play back the sequence exactly the same as when you played during the recording. 
AFTER key
Changes the effect of the Q-Link slider, allowing you to control previously recorded note variation data during 
playback (after being recorded.).
If you move the Q-Link slider while playing back a sequence with note variation when the [AFTER] key is OFF 
(the LED is turned off), the pad’s note variation is played back as recorded. If you hit the pad during the 
playback, the pad that you hit will have the effect of the Q-Link slider. 
If you move the Q-Link slider while playing back the sequence with note variation when the [AFTER] key is ON 
(the LED is lit), the note variation value will be replaced with the current position of the Q-Link slider. Q-Link slider
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
-44-



Chapter 9 : Using the MPC1000 with external devices
In this section, you will learn how to sync the MPC1000 to the other MIDI devices using MIDI clock. MIDI clock is a  
function of the MIDI standard and allows several MIDI devices to synchronize. If your MIDI device supports MIDI 
clock, you can use the device and the MPC1000 in sync. If you are not sure if your MIDI device supports MIDI 
clock or not, refer to the device’s operation manual. 
Sync with the MPC1000 as the master 
When you play the MPC1000’s sequence, the connected MIDI device will follow. MIDI clock data will be sent 
from the MPC1000 to the connected MIDI device. In this case, the MPC1000 is called the “master”, and the 
connected MIDI device the “slave”. 
01. Connect the MIDI OUT of the MPC1000 to MIDI IN of the external MIDI device using a 
MIDI cable. 
The MPC1000 has two MIDI OUTs: MIDI OUT A and MIDI OUT B. You can connect to either MIDI output, but 
for this example connect to the MIDI OUT B. 
02. Select the MIDI/SYNC mode by pressing the [MODE] key and hitting the [PAD 9] 
(MIDI/SYNC). 
03. Press the [F2] (SYNC) key. 
The SYNC page will be displayed.
04. Select the Sync out field and select the output of the MIDI clock. 
You can send out MIDI clock from both MIDI OUT A and B. In this example, since you have connected the 
external MIDI device to MIDI OUT B in step 1, select MIDI OUT B.
05. Press the [MAIN] key. 
The main page, where you play back the sequence, will be displayed. 
06. Set the external MIDI device to receive the MIDI clock. 
Refer to the device’s operation manual. 
07. Press the [PLAY START] key. 
The MPC1000 starts playback and the external MIDI device should start playback at the same time.
Sync with the MPC1000 as the slave 
The external MIDI sequencer triggers the MPC1000. When the external MIDI sequencer starts playback, the 
MPC1000 starts playback as well. The MIDI clock is sent from the external MIDI sequencer to the MPC1000. In 
this case, the external MIDI sequencer works as the master, and the MPC1000 as the slave. 
01. Connect the MIDI IN of the MPC1000 to MIDI OUT of the external MIDI device using the 
MIDI cable. 
The MPC1000 has two MIDI Ins: MIDI IN 1 and MIDI IN 2. You can connect to either MIDI IN, but here, 
connect to the MIDI IN 2. 
02. Select the MIDI/SYNC mode by pressing the [MODE] key and hitting the [PAD 9] 
(MIDI/SYNC). 
03. Press the [F2] (SYNC) key. 
The SYNC page will be displayed.
04. Select the "Sync in" field and select the input of the MIDI clock. 
You can receive the MIDI clock from both MIDI IN 1 and 2. In this example, as you have connected the 
external MIDI device to MIDI IN 2 in step 1, select MIDI OUT 2.Using the MPC1000 with external devices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-45-


05. Press the [MAIN] key. 
The main page, where you play back the 
sequence, will be displayed. (EXT) will be 
displayed in the 
  (Tempo) field. 
06. Set the external MIDI device to send out the MIDI clock. 
Refer to the device’s operation manual. 
07. Start the playback of the external MIDI sequencer. 
The MPC1000 starts the playback as well.
Note: The MIDI clock signal has tempo information. The slave device will follow the master device’s tempo 
regardless of its original tempo. 
Note: The MIDI clock signal does not have time information. If the time settings of the master and the slave are 
different, they will still play in sync but their time position display may be different. 
Connecting the MPC1000 to the MIDI keyboard with the sound module
In this section, you can learn how to connect the MPC1000 to a MIDI keyboard which has an internal sound module 
to use the MPC1000’s sequencer feature. 
Normally, The MIDI keyboard with the sound module is set to generate the sound from the internal sound module 
when you play the keyboard. However, The MPC1000 sends out any incoming MIDI signals to the MIDI keyboard at 
the MIDI output. So, if you play the keyboard, the performance will be played in duplicate. To use the MPC1000 as 
a sequencer, you need to change the setting on the MIDI keyboard so that the MPC1000, not the MIDI keyboard, 
plays the keyboard’s internal sound module. Normally this could be done by changing the setting called “local 
control”. By setting the MIDI keyboard’s local control to OFF, you can use the external keyboard and its internal 
sound module separately. In this case, the MIDI signal flows as in the figure in the right. 
The performance data from the MIDI 
keyboard will be entered to the MPC1000. 
It will not be sent to the internal sound 
module. 
The MIDI output of the MPC1000 will be 
sent back to the MIDI keyboard, which will 
plays the keyboards sound module.
For more information about the setting of 
your MIDI keyboard’s local control, see 
the keyboard’s operation manual. 
If your MIDI keyboard does not have a local control setting, deactivate the MPC1000’s soft through function. In 
this case, the MPC1000 will output only the data that is recorded on the track, not the incoming MIDI signal. 
However, if you do this, you cannot use some MPC1000 features, such as note repeat. 
01. Select the MIDI/SYNC mode by pressing the [MODE] key and hitting the [PAD 9] 
(MIDI/SYNC).
02. Press the [F1] (MIDI) key. 
The MIDI page will be displayed. 
03. Select the Soft thru field and select OFF.
The soft thru field determines how to output the incoming MIDI signal.
You can select the following options:
OFF	 The MPC1000 will not output the incoming MIDI signal. 
AS TRACK	 The MPC1000 refers to the MIDI channel setting of the sequence’s track. The channel 
information of the incoming MIDI signal will be replaced with the MIDI channel set in the track.Using the MPC1000 with external devices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-46-
MIDI keyboardMPC1000
SOUND


OMNI- A	 The MPC1000 will output the incoming MIDI data as it is from MIDI OUT A. 
OMNI- B	 The MPC1000 will output the incoming MIDI data as it is from MIDI OUT B.
OMNI- AB	 The MPC1000 will output the incoming MIDI data as it is from both MIDI OUT A and B.
Setting the MIDI input
Normally, the MPC1000 can receive the incoming MIDI data regardless of the MIDI channel, so you do not have to 
worry about the MIDI channel of the connected MIDI devices. You can change the setting to receive only the data 
on a specific MIDI channel.
01. Select the MIDI/SYNC mode by pressing the [MODE] key and hitting the [PAD 9] 
(MIDI/SYNC).
02. Press the [F1] (MIDI) key. 
The MIDI page will be displayed.
03. Select the Active track receive channel field and select the MIDI channel from which 
you wish to receive the data.
If you set this field to ALL, the MPC1000 will receive all channels. If you select any channel from 1 to 15, the 
MPC1000 will receive only the selected channel. Using the MPC1000 with external devices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-47-


Chapter 10 : Recording a sample
In this chapter, you will lean how to record from an analog external device (CD player’s analog output, microphone, 
etc…) so that you can play the sound by hitting the pads. 
Preparing the recording
01. Connect the external device to the RECORD IN, which is located on the MPC1000’s rear 
panel.
The format of the analog input of the MPC1000 is standard phone jack. If your device’s format is different, 
you will need an adapter. 
02. Press the [MODE] key and then [PAD 5] (RECORD).
When you press the [MODE] key, its LED will blink. Pressing [PAD 5] with the [MODE] key’s LED on displays 
the RECORD page, where you set the setting for the recording. 
03. Select the Input field, and select the recording source. 
ANALOG	 The MPC1000 will record the incoming signal from the RECORD IN on the rear panel.  
DIGITAL	 The MPC1000 will record the incoming signal from the DIGITAL IN on the rear panel. 
MAIN OUT	 The MPC1000 will record the same signal with the signal from the STEREO OUT on the rear 
panel. 
For this example, please select ANALOG. 
04. Select the Mode field and select STEREO or MONO. 
STEREO	 The MPC1000 will record the left and right channel signals as a stereo sample. 
MONO	 The MPC1000 will record only the left channel signal. 
05. Play the source. Check the level meter on screen and adjust the recording level using 
the [REC GAIN] knob. 
Note:  When you select DIGITAL or MAIN OUT in the Input field, you cannot adjust the recording level with the [REC 
GAIN] knob. 
The level meter moves according to the input level. If the meter goes too far to the right, the sound will be 
distorted, but if the sound level is too low, the sample will gain a lot of noise. Set the level as high as 
possible without reaching the right edge (clip). 
06. Select the Threshold field and set the threshold level to start the recording. 
When the MPC1000 is in the recording enable mode, it starts the recording automatically when the level of 
the incoming source exceeds the threshold level. If you set the threshold level too high, the MPC1000 may 
not start the recording when you play the input source, or the beginning of the recording may be missing. If 
you set the threshold level too low, the MPC1000 may start the recording before you play the external 
source. Set this to the appropriate level using the level meter. The threshold level will be indicated as “ 
  ” as 
the figure below. 
07. Select the Time field and set the recording time. 
The MPC1000 will record for the time set in this field. We recommend you set the time a little longer than the 
actual recording time. You can finish the recording manually. Recording a sample
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-48-


Starting the recording
08. Press [F6] (RECORD) key. 
The MPC1000 will be in the record ready mode, and the bottom of the screen will change as below. 
This indicates that the MPC1000 is waiting for the incoming signal. It starts the recording when the input 
signal exceeds the threshold level. 
Pressing the [F5] (CANCEL) key cancels the record ready mode and resets the MPC1000.
Pressing the [F6] (START) key starts the recording, even when the incoming signal does not exceed the 
threshold level. 
Note: If you press the [F6] (RECORD) key when the external source is higher than the threshold level, the 
MPC1000 will start the recording right after you press the [F6] (RECORD) key. 
09. Play the external source. 
The MPC1000 will start the recording automatically when the level of the input signal exceeds the threshold 
level. During the recording, the bottom of the screen will change as below: 
The MPC1000 stops the recording at the time set in the Time field. 
You can stop the recording manually before the time set in the Time field, by pressing the [F6] (STOP) key. 
To cancel the recording, press the [F5] (CANCEL) key. 
After the MPC1000 ends the recording, the Keep or Retry window will be displayed. 
10. Check the recorded sample by pressing [F4] (PLAY) key. 
If you press the [F4] (PLAY) key, you can play back the recorded sample until you release the key. 
If you do not like the recording, you can remove the recording and return to the RECORD page by pressing 
the [F2] (RETRY) key. If you like the recording and decide to keep it, proceed to the next step. 
11. Select the New name field with the cursor, and set the name for the sample. 
In the New name field, the recorded sample will have a new name automatically. You can select the New 
name field with the cursor and change the sample name if needed. For more information about setting the 
sample name, see the “Setting names” section on page 8. 
12. Select the Assign to pad field with the cursor and select the pad to which you wish to 
assign the sample. 
You can select the pad directly by hitting the pad when the cursor is in the Assign to pad field. If you just wish 
to keep the recorded sample in the MPC1000’s memory and not to assign to the pad, select OFF with the 
DATA wheel. 
13. Press the [F5] (KEEP) key. 
This closes the Keep or Retry windows and goes back to the RECORD page. 
Note: The recorded sample will be removed when you switch the unit off. To keep the sample, you need to save on 
a memory card or import it to a PC. For more information about saving the data, see the “Save / Load” section 
on page 75 or see the “Connecting the MPC1000 to your computer” section on page 85 . Recording a sample
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-49-


Recording the sample - detailed information
In this section, you will learn about several features regarding the recording which were not described in the 
“Recording the sample” section. 
Recording the digital signal
Here, you will learn how to record a digital signal. 
Note: You can record only from the devices whose sampling rate in set to 44.1kHz (ex. CD player). The MPC1000 
does not support the other sampling rates. 
Note: The format of the MPC1000’s digital input is coaxial type. If your digital device has an optical output, you 
cannot connect it to the MPC1000 directly. You will need an adapter. 
Preparing the recording
01. Connect the external device to the DIGITAL IN which is located on the MPC1000’s rear 
panel.
02. Press the [MODE] key and then [PAD 5] (RECORD) to display the RECORD page.
03. Select the Input field and select DIGITAL.
When you select DIGITAL, a digital device MUST be connected to the MPC1000.
04. Select the Mode field and select STEREO or MONO. 
05. Play the source. Check the level meter on screen. 
Note: With the digital recording, you cannot adjust the recording level.
06. Select the Threshold field and set the threshold level to trigger the recording.
07. Select the Time field and set the recording time. 
For the next steps, proceed as described in the “Starting the recording" section  on page 49. 
Recording the MAIN OUT
In this section, you will learn how to record the same signal found on the STEREO OUT of the MPC1000. With this 
feature, you can add the effects to the recorded sample and re-record it, or you can record the phrase that you 
created with the sequence feature, as one sample. 
Preparing the recording
01. Prepare the system so that you can play the desired sound by hitting the pads or 
playing back the sequence.
The sound that the MPC1000 will actually record is exactly the same as the sound from the STEREO OUT. 
Before going back to the RECORD mode, set the program and sequence so that the desired sound will be 
output from the STEREO OUT. 
02. Press the [MODE] key and then [PAD 5] (RECORD) to display the RECORD page.
03. Select the Input field and select MAIN OUT.
04. Select the Mode field and select STEREO or MONO. 
05. Select the Time field and set the recording time. 
Note: When MAIN OUT is selected, you cannot adjust the recording level. 
Note: When MAIN OUT is selected, the level meter is not displayed. 
For the next steps, proceed as described in the “Starting the recording” section on page 49.Recording a sample
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-50-


Other features
Monitoring feature
In the Monitor field of the RECORD page, you can determine if you want to monitor the input signal (output the 
signal from the STEREO OUT) in RECORD mode or not. 
ON	 You can monitor the input signal. This is useful when you record sounds directly from the CD player. 
OFF	 You cannot monitor the input signal. For example: when you send the signal to the MPC1000 through a 
mixer, both the source sound and the monitored sound may be sent to the mixer. To avoid this, you 
should set this to OFF. 
Peak hold/Reset peak feature
The level meter in the RECORD page has the peak hold feature. This is a useful feature for adjusting the signal 
level during recording. Normally, the display of the level meter changes in real time according to the level of the 
incoming signal. However, the peak hold displays the maximum level and keep the level even when the level 
decreases. 
To reset the peak hold display, press the [F1] [F2] (RESET PEAK) key in the RECORD page. 
Sample Memory Window
When you press the [WINDOW] key in the RECORD page, the Sample Memory window will be displayed. 
The Free memory field displays the time you can record with the current memory. Below it, the status of the 
memory is indicated as bar graph. 
Below the bar graph, the total amount of the RAM in the MPC1000 is displayed.Recording a sample
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-51-


Chapter 11 : Editing a sample
In this section, you will learn about the TRIM mode, where you can set the sample’s start/end points, or the loop.
Setting the start/end points for the sample
The start/end points sets the part of the sample data, which will actually be played back. The recorded sample may 
have an unnecessary part at the beginning, which may make it more difficult to place the sound in the correct spot 
timing when hitting the pad. You can fix this problem by adjusting the start point. You can also adjust both the start 
and end points to play only a part of the phrase. If the sample has empty parts at the end, which consumes 
unnecessary memory, you can delete the empty parts by adjusting the end point and using the edit feature. 
Start/end points are displayed in sample points. The sample point is the minimum unit used for sample editing. The 
MPC1000 has the 44100 sample points per second. 
About the waveform display
The TRIM page displays the waveform of the sample selected in the Sample field. 
It displays the waveform of the whole sample, with the parts set by start/end points highlighted. If you select a 
stereo sample, you can select the channel (LEFT/RIGHT) to display in the View field. 
Adjusting the start point
01. Press the [MODE] key and then the [PAD 6] (TRIM).
When you press the [MODE] key, its LED will blink. Press the [PAD 6] while the [MODE] key’s LED is blinking 
to display the TRIM page. 
02. Select the Sample field and select a sample you wish to edit. 
The Sample field is located in the upper left corner of the screen, which displays the sample name. It displays 
the waveform of the selected sample.
03. Select the St (start) field and adjust the start point. 
You can change the start point by turning the DATA wheel. 
If you press the left/right cursor key while holding the [SHIFT] key, you can select the digit with the DATA 
wheel. 
You can also enter the value directly using the [NUMERIC] key and pads. When you press the [NUMERIC] 
key, its LED will blink, which indicates you can enter numbers with pads. 
04. Hit the pad to check the start point. 
When you hit the pad, the MPC1000 plays the sample. The playback method varies depending on the pad. 
If you hit the [PAD 14] (PLAY TO), the MPC1000 will play the sample before the start point. 
If you hit the [PAD 15] (PLAY FROM), the MPC1000 will play the sample from the start point. 
If you hit the [PAD 16] (PLAY ALL), the MPC1000 will play the whole sample regardless of the start/end point 
settings.
If you hit any pad from the [PAD 1] to [PAD 12], the MPC1000 will play from the start point to the end point.Editing a sample
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-52-



Adjusting the end point
01. Select the End field and adjust the end point. 
You can change the end point by turning the DATA wheel. 
If you press the left/right cursor key while holding the [SHIFT] key, you can select the digit with the DATA 
wheel. 
You can also enter the value directly using the [NUMERIC] key and pads. When you press the [NUMERIC] 
key, its LED will blink, which indicates you can enter numbers with pads. 
02. Hit the pad to check the end point. 
When you hit the pad, the MPC1000 plays the sample. The playback method varies depending on the pad. 
If you hit the [PAD 14] (PLAY TO), the MPC1000 will play the sample until the end point. 
If you hit the [PAD 15] (PLAY FROM), the MPC1000 will play the sample from the end point. 
If you hit the [PAD 16] (PLAY ALL), the MPC1000 will play the whole sample regardless of the start/end point 
settings.
If you hit any pad from the [PAD 1] to [PAD 12], the MPC1000 will play from the start point to the end point.
Zooming in/out of the waveform
With the Fine window, you can zoom in to a part of the waveform and edit the part in details. Press the [WINDOW] 
key in the TRIM page, when the cursor is either in the St (Start) or End field, and the Fine window will be displayed. 
In the Fine windows, the waveform display varies depending on the location of the cursor. When you select the 
St (Start) field with the cursor, it displays the start point in the center of the window. When you select the end 
field, it displays the end point in the center. 
If you press the [F2] (ZOOM-) key the waveform will be zoomed out, if you press the [F3] (ZOOM+) key, it will be 
zoomed in. 
LINEAR and LOGARITHMIC displays 
The vertical axis indicates the sample’s level. Normally, the waveform display is set to LINEAR, which displays 
the sample level as it is. However, some parts (fade out part etc…) may not be displayed in the waveform if the 
level is too low. In this case, you can switch to the LOG (logarithmic) display by pressing the [F5] (LOG) key and 
you can see the parts whose level is low. When you switch to the LOG mode, the display in the [F5] key will 
change to LINEAR. To switch back to the LINEAR mode, press the [F5] key again. 
Deleting an unnecessary part from a sample (DISCARD)
The MPC1000 plays back only the part of the sample from the start point to the end point. The parts outside 
these points are not used for the playback. With the Discard function, you can delete these unnecessary parts 
and save the memory space. 
01. Adjust the start/end points. 
Set the points so that the MPC1000 plays back only the necessary part.
02. Press the [F6] (EDIT) key. 
The Sample Edit window will be displayed. 
03. In the Edit field, select DISCARD.
04. Press the [F5] (DO IT) key. 
The data outside the start/end points will be deleted. The deleted data will be returned to the available 
memory. Editing a sample
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-53-


Saving part of a sample as a new sample (EXTRACT)
You can extract the part of the sample set with the start/end points, as a new sample. For example, you can 
extract the snare sounds from the recorded drum loop and save it as a new sample to use it separately. 
01. Adjust the start/end points. 
Set the desired part with the start and end points. 
02. Press the [F6] (EDIT) key. 
The Sample Edit windows will be displayed. 
03. In the Edit field, select EXTRACT.
04. In the New name field, set the name for the new sample.
05. Press the [F5] (DO IT) key. 
The part between the start/end points will be saved as a new sample. 
Sample window features
Pressing the [WINDOW] key in the sample field bring up the Sample window. In the Sample window, you can make 
several settings for the selected sample. 
Changing the sample name
01. In the Sample field in the TRIM page, select a sample that you wish to change the name 
of. 
02. Press the [WINDOW] key.
The Sample windows will open.
03. In the Sample name field, enter the new name.
For more information for setting the name, see the “Setting names” section on Page 8.
04. Press [F4] (CLOSE) key
It closes the window and goes back to TRIM page.
Changing the pitch of a sample
In the Tune field, you can set the sample’s pitch. The 2 digits in the left is semitones, the 2 digits in the right is 
cents (100 cents = 1 semitone). You can change the pitch in the PROGRAM mode as well. The changes you 
made in the Sample window will be applied to the actual sample. So if you assign one sample to several pads, or 
use one sample in several programs, the change will be applied to all of them. To change the sample of a 
specific pad, use the PROGRAM mode. Editing a sample
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-54-


Copying a sample
You can copy a sample and create a new sample.
01. In the Sample field in the TRIM mode, select a sample to copy. 
02. Press the [WINDOW] key.
The Sample window will open.
03. Press the [F5] (COPY) key.
The Copy Sample window will open. 
04. In the New name field, set the name to the newly created sample. 
For more information regarding setting the name, see the “Setting names” section on Page 8.
05. Press the [F3] (DO IT) key. 
The MPC1000 will start copying the sample. To cancel the operation, press the [F4] (CANCEL) key instead.
Deleting a sample
You can remove a sample from the memory of the MPC1000. 
01. In the Sample field in the TRIM mode, select a sample to delete. 
02. Press the [WINDOW] key.
The Sample window will open.
03. Press [F2] (DELETE) key.
The Delete Sample window will open.
04. Press [F5] (DO IT) key. 
This deletes the sample you have selected.
Deleting all samples
You can delete all the sample data in the memory at one time.
01. In the TRIM page, select the Sample field and press the [WINDOW] key. 
The Sample window will open.
02. Press [F2] (DELETE) key.
The Delete Sample window will open.
03. Press [F3] (ALL) key.
The Delete ALL Samples window will open.
04. Press [F5] (DO IT) key.
This deletes all the samples from the MPC1000’s memory.
Other editing functions
NORMALIZE
When you assign a sample recorded at low level, its playback level will also be low. You can set the levels of 
pads in the MIXER mode, but you have to set some pads to a lower level. With the normalize function; you can 
increase the sample level to the highest level possible without being distorted. 
01. In the sample field, select the sample you wish to adjust the level of. 
02. Press the [F6] (EDIT) key. 
The Sample Edit window will be displayed. 
03. In the Edit field, select NORMALIZE. 
04. Press the [F5] (DO IT) key. 
Normalizing will start. It may take some time to process depending on the length of the sample. Editing a sample
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-55-


Setting the loop
The loop feature plays the sample repeatedly. With the loop feature, you can play the sample from the loop point 
to the end point repeatedly. To activate the loop feature, turn on the loop field, which is located in the upper right 
corner of the LOOP page. When the loop feature is on, the MPC1000 first plays the part from the start point set 
in the TRIM page to the end point, and then plays the part from the loop point set in the LOOP page to the end 
point repeatedly. 
Note: If you set the pad to ONE SHOT in the PROGRAM mode, the MPC1000 will play the sample assigned to that 
pad like when the loop is off, even when the loop feature is on. When you use the loop feature, set the pad’s 
play mode to NOTE ON. For more information, see the “Playing the sample while the pad is being hit” section 
in the page 59.
Adjusting the loop point
01. In the TRIM mode, press the [F2] (LOOP) key. 
The LOOP page will be displayed. 
02. Select the Sample field and select a sample you wish to edit. 
The Sample field is located in the upper left corner of the screen, which displays the sample name. It displays 
the waveform of the selected sample.
03. Select the Lp (loop) field and adjust the loop point. 
You can change the loop point by turning the DATA wheel. 
If you press the left/right cursor key while holding the [SHIFT] key, you can select the digit with the DATA 
wheel. 
You can also enter the value directly using the [NUMERIC] key and pads. When you press the [NUMERIC] 
key, its LED will blink, which indicates you can enter numbers with pads. 
04. Hit the pad to check the loop point. 
When you hit the pad, the MPC1000 plays the sample. The playback method varies depending on the pad. 
If you hit the [PAD 13] (PLAY LOOP), the MPC1000 will play the sample from the loop point to the end point 
repeatedly.
If you hit the [PAD 14] (PLAY TO), the MPC1000 will play the part before  the loop point. 
If you hit the [PAD 15] (PLAY FROM), the MPC1000 will play the sample from the loop point. 
If you hit the [PAD 16] (PLAY ALL), the MPC1000 will play the whole sample.
If you hit any pad from the [PAD 1] to [PAD 12], the MPC1000 will first play from the start point to the end 
point, and then play from the loop point to the end point repeatedly.
Adjusting the end point
05. Select the End field and adjust the end point. 
Note: The end point of the loop is the same with the end point of the sample, which is set in the TRIM page. 
If you change the end point in the LOOP page, the end point in the TRIM page will be changed as well. Editing a sample
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-56-


Zooming in/out of the waveform
With the Loop Fine window, you can zoom into a part of the waveform and edit the part in details. Press the 
[WINDOW] key in the LOOP page, when the cursor is either in the Lp (loop) or End field, and the Loop Fine 
window will be displayed. 
The waveform of the end point is displayed in the left of the waveform display, and the waveform of the loop 
point in the right, so you can adjust the loop and end points while checking the relationship of the waveform.   
If you press the [F2] (ZOOM-) key the waveform will be zoomed out, if you press the [F3] (ZOOM+) key, it will be 
zoomed in.
LINEAR and LOGARITHMIC displays 
The vertical axis indicates the waveform’s level. Normally, the waveform display is set to LINEAR, which 
displays the sample level as it is. However, some parts (fade out part etc…) may not be displayed as the 
waveform if the level is too low. In this case, you can switch to the LOG (logarithmic) display by pressing the 
[F5] (LOG) key and you can see the parts whose level is low. When you switch to the LOG mode, the display 
in the [F5] key will change to LINEAR. To switch back to the LINEAR mode, press the [F5] key again.
Linking the loop point to the start point
When you loop the whole sample (ex: loop the phrase sample to the rhythm), it is better to set the start and loop 
point to the same value so that you can change both points at the same time. 
01. In the LOOP page, select the 
  (start/loop link) field. 
02. Turn the DATA wheel and set the field to 
  (locked by the key). 
Loop point is set to the value of the start point. If you change the loop point later, the start point will be 
changed as well and vice versa. 
If you reset the start/loop link field, you can set the start point and loop point separately. Editing a sample
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-57-


Chapter 12 : Program
In this section, you will learn how to edit a program. This is done in the PROGRAM mode, which can be accessed by 
pressing the [MODE] key and then the [PAD 7] (PROGRAM). 
Creating a program 
To create a new program, proceed as follows.
Note: the MPC1000 is set to load the preset program automatically when turned on. You can set the MPC1000 to 
start without loading preset program. For more information, see the “Setting the auto load function” on page 
83. 
01. Press the [MODE] key and then the [PAD 7] (PROGRAM).
When you press the [MODE] key, its LED will blink. When you press the [PAD 7] with the [MODE] key’s LED 
blink, you can enter the PROGRAM mode. 
02. Select the Pgm field and press the [WINDOW] key. 
The Program window will be displayed. 
03. Press the [F3] (NEW) key. 
The New Program window will be displayed. 
04. In the New name field, turn the DATA wheel. 
The name window will be displayed. Set the name for the new program and press the [F5] (ENTER) key. For 
more information about setting the name, see the “Setting names” section on page 8.
05. In the New Program window, press the [F5] (DO IT) key. 
The new program will be created. 
The new program is “empty”, which means it does not have any samples assigned. To play the program, you need 
to assign samples to the pads in the SAMPLE page of the PROGRAM mode. 
Assigning/Reassigning samples to the pads
You need to assign samples to the pads in the PROGRAM mode so that you can play the samples with the pads. In 
this section, you will learn how to assign samples to these pads and how to change the current assignment. 
01. Press the [MODE] key and then the [PAD 7] (PROGRAM). 
When you press the [MODE] key, its LED will blink. When you press the [PAD 7] with the [MODE] key’s LED 
blinking, you can enter the PROGRAM mode.
Pressing the [F1] (SAMPLE) key displays the SAMPLE page. 
The Pgm field in the upper left corner 
displays the name of the currently selected 
program. You can change the selected 
program in the Pgm field.
02. Hit the pad you wish to assign a sample to. 
The pad number will be displayed in the left (the section which says A01 in the above picture). The pad 
number will change according to the pad you hit. 
03. Select the 1 field and select the sample to assign to the pad. 
You can select the sample currently stored in the MPC1000’s RAM by turning the DATA wheel. 
You can assign samples by selecting 2 through 4 fields. If you assign samples to 2 through 4 fields, you can 
play several samples by hitting the pad once. Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-58-



Playing the sample while the pad is being hit 
When you play a sample by hitting the pad, the sample will be played until the end regardless of the length you hit 
the pad for. This is useful when you play short drum sounds. However, when you play a long sample such as a 
phrase sample, it is better to set the MPC1000 to play the sample only when you hold the pad. In this section, you 
will learn how to play the sample when you hit the pad. 
01. In the SAMPLE page of the PROGRAM mode, hit the pad you wish to change. 
The pad number display in the left of the screen will change according to the pad that you hit.
02. Select the 1 field and press the [WINDOW] key.
The Play Mode window will be displayed. 
03. Select the Layer 1 field and select the option.
ONE SHOT	 The MPC1000 plays the sample until the end regardless of how long you hold the pad. 
NOTE ON	 The MPC1000 plays the sample only while you hold the pad. 
04. Press the [F4] (CLOSE) key to close the window.
It will bring you back to the SAMPLE page. 
Note: when you loop the sample, set the play mode to NOTE ON. When you select ONE SHOT, the loop feature will 
not work even when it is on. 
Setting the volume and the tuning for a sample
You can set the volume and the tuning for samples that are assigned to the pads. 
01. In the SAMPLE page of the PROGRAM mode, hit the pad you wish to change its volume 
and pitch. 
The pad number display in the left of the screen will change according to the pad you hit.
02. Select the Lvl field. 
03. Adjust the volume to the desired level while checking the level by hitting pad. 
04. Select the Tune field. 
The Tune field has two fields divided by a decimal point. The 2 digits on the left set the tuning by semitones. 
The 2 digits on the right change the tuning by cents (100 cents = 1 semitone). 
05. Adjust the pitch to the desired level while checking the tune by hitting pad.
Changing the sample volume with velocity
You can control the sample volume by velocity (how hard you hit the pad). With this feature, you can play the pads 
like real drums; when you hit the pad strongly, the sound will be loud and vice versa. 
01. In the SAMPLE page of the PROGRAM mode, hit the pad you wish to edit. 
The pad number display in the left of the screen will change according to the pad you hit.
02. Select the Lvl field.
03. Press the [WINDOW] key. 
The Amp Envelope window will be displayed.
04. Select the V>Level field.
05. Adjust the field to the desired value while checking the level by hitting the desired pad. 
If you set this field to 0, the sample will be played back at the maximum level regardless of the amount of 
pressure. The larger you set the value, the bigger the difference of the level will be.Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-59-


Playing several samples with one pad
You can assign up to 4 samples to one pad. When you assign more than one sample to a pad, you can play several 
samples by hitting one pad. 
01. In the SAMPLE page of the PROGRAM mode, select the desired pad. 
The pad number display in the left of the screen will change according to the pad you hit.
The Pgm field in the upper left corner displays the name of the currently selected program. You can change 
the currently selected program in the Pgm field. 
02. Select the 1 field and select the sample to assign to the pad. 
You can select the samples currently saved in the MPC1000’s memory by turning the DATA wheel. 
03. Select the 2 field and select the sample to assign it to the pad. 
When you hit the pad, both samples, which are assigned to the pad in the 1 field and the 2 fields, will be 
played at the same time. 
04. Assign the samples to the 3 and 4 fields if necessary. 
Switching between samples using velocity
When you assign more than one sample to a pad, you can switch between samples by the velocity used to hit the 
pad. 
01. In the SAMPLE page of the PROGRAM mode, select the desired pad by hitting it. 
02. Assign the samples to the 1 field and the 2 field.
03. Select the Range field in the same row with the 1 field, and set the velocity range to 
trigger the sample assigned to the field. 
The Range field has two fields to set the upper and the lower limits. You can set the lower limit in the left field 
and the upper limit in the right field. Here, set the upper limit (the right field) to 63. 
04. Select the Range field in the same row with the 2 field, and set the velocity range to 
trigger the sample assigned to the field.
In this example, set the lower limit (the left field) to 64.
05. Check the result by hitting the pad. 
If you hit the pad strongly, the MPC1000 will play the sample assigned to the 2 field. If you hit the pad weakly, 
the MPC1000 will play the sample assigned to the 1 field. 
Tips: The pressure used to hit the pad will be displayed in the 128 steps (0 to 127). The maximum level is 127. This 
is the same with the “MIDI velocity”, which indicates the pressure used to play the keyboard. 
Tips: You can also use the Q- Link slider to switch layers. For more information, see the “Q-Link Slider” section on 
page 44.Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-60-


Setting the envelope for a pad
You can set the envelope for the samples assigned to the pads. You can set the beginning of the sound with the 
attack time, and the fade out of the sound with the decay time. 
01. In the SAMPLE page of the PROGRAM mode, select the pad you wish to make a setting 
by hitting it. 
02. IN the Lvl field, press the [WINDOW] key.
The Amp Envelope window will be displayed. 
Attack field
You can set the sample’s attack time in this field. The larger the value, the slower the sound will start. (fade in)
Decay field
You can set the sample’s decay time in this field. The larger you set the value, the slower the fade out becomes.
Dcy md (decay modulation) field
You can set the start point that the decay starts the fade out in this field. 
START	 The decay will begin right after the attack time set in the Attack field. 
END	 The start point of the delay will be set so that the fade out will end at the sample’s end point. 
Tips: When you work with the drum sounds or phrase sampling, select END. Select START if you need the fade out 
effect for the phrase. 
The functions in the Program window
Pressing the [WINDOW] key in the Pgm field brings up the Program window. In the Program window, you can edit 
the setting for the selected program.
Changing the program name
01. In the Pgm field of the PROGRAM page, select a program that you wish to change the 
name of. 
02. Press the [WINDOW] key.
The Program windows will open.
03. In the Program name field, enter the new name.
For more information for setting the name, see the “Setting names” section on Page 8.
04. Press [F4] (CLOSE) key.
It closes the window and goes back to PROGRAM mode.Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-61-


Copying a program
You can copy a program to make a new program.
01. In the Pgm field in PROGRAM mode, select the program that you wish to copy. 
02. Press the [WINDOW] key.
The Program window will open.
03. Press [F5] (COPY) key.
The Copy Program window will open. 
04. In the New name field, set the name for the new program.
For more information regarding setting the name, see the “Setting names” section on Page 8.
05. Press [F3] (DO IT) key. 
Copying the program will start. To cancel the operation, press [F4] (CANCEL) key instead.
Deleting a program
You can remove a program from the memory of the MPC1000. 
01. In the Pgm field in PROGRAM mode, select the program that you wish to delete. 
02. Press the [WINDOW] key.
The Program window will open.
03. Press [F2] (DELETE) key
The Delete Program window will open.
04. Press [F5] (DO IT) key. 
This deletes the selected program.
Deleting all programs
You can delete all the program data in the memory at the same time.
01. In the PROGRAM mode, select the Pgm field and press the [WINDOW] key. 
The Program window will open.
02. Press [F2] (DELETE) key.
The Delete Program window will open.
03. Press [F3] (ALL PG) key.
The Delete ALL Programs window will open.
04. Press [F5] (DO IT) key.
This deletes all the programs.
Setting the program change number
You can switch the programs assigned to a track within the sequence by setting the program change numbers in 
each program. You do not have to set the program change numbers if you do not need to switch the programs .
To switch the programs, program change events are used. You can enter these events in the STEP EDIT mode. 
For more information about entering the program change events, see the “Step editing” section on page 30.
01. In the Pgm field of the PROGRAM mode, press the [WINDOW] key. 
The Program window will be displayed. 
02. Select the MIDI program change field and set the program change number. 
If a track has a program change event with the same number set in this field, the MPC1000 switches the 
program at the event while playing back the sequence. If you do not wish to switch the program during the 
playback, set this field to OFF.Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-62-


Editing the sound of a sample
Each pad has a parameter to change the sound, which is called “Filter”. You can edit the sound of the sample by 
editing this parameter. This is done in the FILTER page of the PROGRAM mode. 
Each pad has two filters. You can create a 
more complicated sound by combining these 
two filters. Also you can link these two filters 
to make a more powerful filter. 
01. In the PROGRAM mode, press the [F2] (FILTER) key. 
The FILTER page will be displayed. You can select the program to edit in the Pgm field. 
02. Select the pad you wish to edit for the sound by hitting it. 
The Pad field displays the pad number of the selected pad. To the right of the pad number, the name of the 
sample assigned to the pad is displayed. 
03. Select the Type field of filter 1 (to the left) and select which filter type to use. 
The MPC1000 has several types of filter to edit the sound. With these filters, you can cut or boost the 
specific frequency of the sound. 
LOW PASS	 This filter cuts out the high frequencies and passes the low frequencies. This filter is 
frequently used in the electronic instruments such as synthesizers. 
HIGH PASS	 This filter cuts out the low frequencies and passes the high frequencies. 
BAND PASS	 The filter passes the specific frequencies and cuts out the other frequencies. 
OFF	 No filter is used. 
04. Select the Freq field and set the cut off frequency. 
The cut off frequency is the frequency that triggers the filter. When you select the LOW PASS filter, if you 
set the cut off frequency too low, the sound will seem dull. This is because most of the higher frequencies of 
sound are cut off by the filter. When you select the HIGH PASS filter, if you set the cut off frequency too 
high, most of the lower frequencies are cut off, which results in a more hollow sound.
05. Set the Reso field to adjust the resonance of the filter. 
If you set the resonance value at a larger value, the frequencies set in the Freq field will be boosted more. It 
is hard to describe the effect of the resonance, because it differs depending on the cut off frequency and 
filter type. Experiment several settings in the Type field, Freq field, and Reso field.
Note: If you notice distorted sound while using the FILTER, you can use the Att parameter to adjust the level of the 
signal sent to the filter, and remove the unwanted distortion.
06. Set the filter of the filter 2 (to the right) in the same way. 
Tips: You do not have to edit both filter 1 and 2. If you do not need the filter, set the Type field to OFF.
Linking the two filters
You can link the two filers to make it as one powerful filter. 
To link the filters, select the LINK in the Type field for the filter 2 (in the right). 
The MPC1000 will ignore the settings in the Freq field and the Reso field for the filter 2 and apply the same 
setting as those for the filter 1, which provides you with a powerful filter effect. Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-63-



Controlling the sound with velocity
You can control the cutoff frequency of the filter by the velocity used to hit the pad. With this feature, you can 
control the sound by changing the velocity used to hit the pad. 
01. In the PROGRAM mode, press the [F2] (FILTER) key. 
The FILTER page will be displayed.
02. Select the desired pad by hitting it.  
The Pad field displays the pad number of the selected pad. 
03. Select any of the Type, Freq, or Reso fields and press the [WINDOW] key. 
The Filter Modulation will be displayed. 
04. Select the V>Freq field.
The larger value you set, the bigger the change you can make to the sound by hitting the pad. 
Tips: You can set the V>Freq for the filter 1 and 2 separately. 
Simulating the open/close hi-hat (setting the mute group)
Normally, when you hit a pad when another pad is played back, the samples of these two pads will be played back 
overlapped. With the mute group function, you can stop the playback of the sample of a pad when you hit another 
pad. You can simulate the open/close hi-hat; the sound of the open hi-hat will stop when the close hi-hat sound is 
triggered. 
You can use this function by setting two pads to the same mute group. 
The pads set to the same mute group will not be played at the same time. 
01. In the PROGRAM mode, press the [F3] (PARAMS) key. 
The PARAMS page will be displayed. 
02. Select one of the pads to set the mute group, by hitting the pad. 
03. In the Mute group field, select a number. 
You can set any number except OFF. 
04. Select the other pad to set the mute group, by hitting the pad. 
05. In the Mute group field, set the same number you set for the first pad in the step 3. 
You must set the same number to activate the mute group. 
Hit one pad while playing back another. The first sample will be stopped and only the sample of the pad you 
hit will by played.
Tips: You can set the mute group to more than two pads. 
Setting the overlap of the sounds on the same pad (voice overlap)
Normally, when you hit the same pad several times, the same sound will be overlapped. When you use the 
MPC1000 as a drum machine, you can make the performance sound natural with this feature. However, when you 
are using a phrase sample, it may be better not to overlap the same sound. With the voice overlap function, you 
can set the MPC1000 not to overlap the same pad sound. 
01. In the PROGRAM mode, press the [F3] (PARAMS) key. 
The PARAMS page will be displayed. 
02. Select the desired pad by hitting it. 
03. In the Voice overlap field, select MONO. 
POLY	 The MPC1000 overlaps the sound.
MONO	 The MPC1000 does not overlap the sound. 
If you select MONO, when you hit the pad several times, only the pad that was hit last will be played. Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-64-


Delete all the unused samples at the same time (PURGE)
When you use the MPC1000 to record or load several samples, you may have unused samples (samples not 
assigned to any pads in the program) in the MPC1000’s memory. In this case, it is time consuming to browse the 
contents of the program for unused samples and delete them one by one. With the PURGE function, you can delete 
all the unused samples at the same time. 
01. In the PROGRAM mode, press the [F1] (SAMPLE) key. 
The SAMPLE page will be displayed.
02. Press the [F6] (PURGE) key. 
The Purge Samples window will be displayed. 
03. Press the [F5] (DO IT) key. 
All the samples, which are not assigned to the program, will be deleted at the same time. 
Setting a MIDI note number to the pads
The performance data you made by hitting the MPC1000’s pads is sent to the internal sampler and sequencer 
section directly. You can also send the data as a MIDI signal at the same time. The performance data will be sent 
as MIDI note information. To do so, you need to determine which MIDI note to send out when you hit each pad. 
Also, when you load sequence data, which was created with the external sequencer, to the MPC1000 and play the 
internal sampler section, you have to determine which pad to play by the MIDI note date in the sequence data. 
In this section, you will learn how to assign MIDI notes to the pads. 
01. In the PROGRAM mode, press the [F4] (NOTE) key. 
The NOTE page will be displayed. 
02. Select the desired pad by hitting it. 
The note number of the selected pad will be highlighted. 
03. Select the note number with the DATA wheel. 
In the upper right corner of the screen, the MIDI GM standard name of the drum, which represents the 
selected note number, is displayed.
To reset the setting to the default, press the [F6] (RESET) key. All the notes assigned to the pads will be 
reset to the default setting. Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-65-


Assigning MIDI note numbers to the pads (changing the default setting)
Normally, when you hit a pad, the MPC1000 will output the MIDI note data assigned to the pad in the program. 
However, when the selected track does not have any program assigned, hitting a pad sends out the default MIDI 
note number, instead of the number set in the program. 
When you create a new program, this setting will be used as the default setting. You can change this default pad 
setting in the MIDI/SYNC mode, which can be accessed by pressing the [MODE] key and then the [PAD 9] 
(MIDI/SYNC).
01. Press the [MODE] key and then the [PAD 9] (MIDI/SYNC).
You can enter the MIDI/SYNC mode. 
02. Press the [F3] (NOTE) key. 
The NOTE page will be displayed. 
03. Select the desired pad by hitting it. 
The note number of the selected pad will be highlighted. 
04. Select the note number with the DATA wheel. 
In the upper right corner of the screen, the MIDI GM standard name of the drum, which represents the 
selected note number, is displayed.
To reset the setting to the default, press the [F6] (RESET) key. All the notes assigned to the pads will be 
reset to the default setting.Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-66-


Chapter 13 : Mixer
In this section, you will learn about the mixer feature. In the MIXER mode, you can edit several settings while 
checking the status of the pads graphically. This is done in the MIXER mode, which can be accessed by hitting the 
[MODE] key and then the [PAD 8] (MIXER). 
Setting the level and pan of the pad 
01. Press the [MODE] key and then the [PAD 8] (MIXER). 
When you press the [MODE] key, its LED will blink. When you press the [PAD 8] when the [MODE] key’s LED 
is blinking, you can enter the MIXER mode. Pressing the [F1] (L/PAN) key brings up the Level/Pan page. 
In this picture, each column indicates pad 1 though 16 from the left, and the currently selected pad is 
highlighted. The bar display on the bottom indicates the current level. Longer bars indicate a higher levels. 
The circle in the top of the lane indicates the pan setting. The location of the line in the circle indicates the 
current pan setting. 
02. Hit the desired pad. 
The lane of the selected pad will be highlighted. 
03. Press the down cursor key to set the level, and the up cursor to set the pan. 
When you press the up cursor key, the cursor will move to the pan display, and you can change the pan 
setting with the DATA wheel. When you press the down cursor key, the cursor will move to the level display 
and you can change the level setting with the DATA wheel.
Setting the output for the sample 
The MPC1000 has 4 outputs (assignable mix out) as well as the stereo out. 
To apply an effect to the specific pad by using the external effecter, output the desired pad from the assignable 
mix out and connect the out to the external effecter. Then mix the sound from the stereo out with the effected 
sound using the external mixer. In this section, you will learn how to change the output of the sample of the pad. 
Note: For more information about connecting to the external effecter or mixer and about the operation of them, see 
the operation manual of these devices. 
01. In the MIXER mode, press the [F2] (L/OUT) key. 
The Level/OUT page will be displayed. 
Each column indicates pad 1 though 16 from the left and the currently selected pad is highlighted. The 
display at the top is the field, where you make a setting to send the pad sound to the assignable outputs. 
02. Hit the desired pad. 
The column for the selected pad will be highlighted.
03. Press the up cursor key. 
The Out field to set the output will be selected. You can change the setting by turning the DATA wheel. 
ST	 The pad will be output to the stereo out. 
1/2	 The pad will be output to the assignable mix out 1/2.
3/4	 The pad will be output to the assignable mix out 3/4. Mixer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-67-


Tips: The output setting is made by stereo pairs. If you wish to output four monaural signals separately from the 
four assignable mix outs, use the pan settings in the L/PAN page. For example, to use the assignable mix out 
1/2 as two mono outs, in the L/OUT page, set the output to 1/2 and set the pan setting of the pad you wish to 
output from the out 1 and 2 to L and R respectively.  
Selecting the pad to apply the effect
With the MPC1000, you can apply two effects to one pad sound. To apply effects, you need to set the pad’s 
sample to be sent to the effect section. In this section, you will learn how to send the pad sound to the effect 
section. 
Tips: This picture displays the signal flow of the sample sound to the stereo out through the effect section. As you 
can see in this picture, you can apply the effects only to the pads whose outputs are set to the stereo out. 
You cannot apply the effects to the pads whose outputs are set to the assignable mix outs. 
01. In the MIXER mode, press the [F3] (FXSEND) key. 
The FX SEND page will be displayed. 
Each column indicates pad 1 though 16 from the left and the currently selected pad is highlighted. The 
display at the top indicates the output setting. The bar display on the bottom indicates the current send level. 
The level setting is the same as the setting in the L/PAN page. 
02. Hit the desired pad.
The lane of the selected pad will be highlighted.
03. Press the UP cursor key.
The FX Send field for the effect setting will be selected. You can change the setting by turning the DATA 
wheel.
OF	 No effect will be used.
1	 The effect 1 will be used. The Pad sound will be sent to the FX1 of the effect section.
2	 The effect 2 will be used. The Pad sound will be sent to the FX2 of the effect section.Mixer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-68-PAD
SAMPLESTEREO OUT
EFFECT1
EFFECT21/2
3/4ASSIGNABLE
    MIX OUT


Chapter 14 : Effect
In this section, you will learn how to select and edit effects. The MPC1000 has two stereo effects and one master 
effect. To apply the effects to a specific pad sound, use the two stereo effects. To apply effects to the entire 
sound, use the master effect.
Note: The effect settings will be saved with the ALL file, which is created when you save the data by selecting 
SAVE ALL SEQS & SONGS.
Applying effects to a specific pad sound
You can apply effects to the selected pad sound. Here, let’s apply BIT GRUNGER to the selected pad sound. 
01. Press the [MODE] key and then the [PAD 12] (EFFECT).
The EFFECT mode will be displayed. 
02. Press the [F1] (SELECT) key. 
The SELECT page will be displayed. 
03. Move the cursor to the FX1 type field and turn the DATA wheel, or press the [WINDOW] 
key.
The Select Effect window will be displayed. You can select the effect type by turning the DATA wheel. 
04. Select BIT GRUNGER and press the [F5] (SELECT) key.
This closes the window and goes back to the SELECT page. 
BIT GRUNGER is selected in the FX1 type field.
05. Press the [MODE] key and then the [PAD 8] (MIXER) to display the MIXER mode.
You select the pad for the effect in the MIXER mode. 
06. Press the [F3] (FXSEND) key. 
The FX SEND page will be displayed. 
07. Hit the desired pad. 
This pad will be selected and its display will be highlighted. 
08. Press the UP cursor key to select the FX Send field. 
The FX Send field for the effect setting will be selected. 
OF	 No effect will be applied to the pad.
1	 The effect of the FX1 will be applied to the pad.
2	 The effect of the FX2 will be applied to the pad.
Here, select 1. 
When you hit the selected pad, the processed sound will be played. 
The effected sound will be output from the stereo out. 
Tips: you can apply the effect to several pads. The effect of the FX 1 is applied to all the pads whose FX SEND are 
set to 1 In the FX SEND page of the MIXER mode.
Tips: you can set the effects in details. For more information about detailed editing of each effect, see the “Editing 
effects” section.
Note: You cannot apply the effects to the pads whose outputs are NOT set to ST (stereo out) in the L/OUT page of 
the MIXER mode. 
Like FX 1, you can use the effects of the FX 2 by selecting an effect in the FX2 type field of the SELECT page in the 
MIXER mode and setting the FX SEND field to 2 in the FX SEND page of the MIXER mode. Effect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-69-


Applying reverb
When you select Reverb in the FX type, you need to apply this effect to a specific pad in a slightly different way. 
Here, assume you have selected REVERB in the FX2 type field. 
01. Select REVERB in the FX2 type field and then select the FX SEND page of the MIXER 
mode.
02. Hit the desired pad. 
03. Press the up cursor key to select the FX SEND field and select 2 in the field. 
You cannot apply the reverb effect by just selecting the FX SEND. To apply the effect, you need to adjust the 
signal level sent to the reverb in the send level field. 
04. To adjust the signal level sent to the reverb, press the down cursor key and turn the 
DATA wheel. 
This field is called the Send level field, and it displays the value as the bar. The larger the signal level is, the 
greater the reverb effect becomes. 
Tips: You can adjust the send level field to adjust the amount of the reverb for each pad, individually. 
Applying effects of the FX2 to the effect sound of the FX1
Normally, the effect sound is sent to the stereo out directly. For example, when using the PHASE SHIFTER in the 
FX1 and REVERB in the FX2, you cannot apply REVERB in the FX2, since the effect sound of the FX1 is sent to the 
stereo out. By using the To FX2 field, you can send the output of the FX1 to the FX2 to apply the effect of FX2. 
01. In the SELECT page of the EFFECT mode, set the To FX2 field to YES.
The sound from the FX1 will be sent to the FX2. 
If you set 1 to a pad in the FX SEND page of the MIXER mode, you can apply the effects of both FX 1 and 2 to them. 
If you set 2 to a pad in the FX SEND page of the MIXER mode, you can apply the effects of FX2.
Editing effects
In this section, you will learn how to edit effects. 
When you press the [F2] (FX1) key in the EFFECT mode, the FX1 page will be displayed, where you can edit the 
effects selected in the FX1. Likewise, when you press the [F3] (FX2) key in the EFFECT mode, the FX2 page will be 
displayed, where you can edit the effects selected in the FX2. Also, you can change the effects assigned to  FX1 
and 2 by selecting the effect type in the FX type field, which is located at the top of each page. 
Tips: If you press the [F5] (BYPASS) key in the FX1 and FX2 pages, you can turn off the effects temporally. This is 
useful to compare the effected sound and the original sound. 
Below is a brief overview on each effect. 
BIT GRUNGER 
This effect adds distortion to the sound to lower the quality of the sound and create the lo-fi sound. 
Depth field	 Sets the amount to lower the sound quality. The larger the value is, the more lo-fi sound will 
be created. Effect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-70-


4 BAND EQ (4 band equalizer)
This effect is the equalizer, which can adjust the 4 frequency bands to correct or process the sound. 
Low/Hi EQ is a shelving type equalizer, which boosts or cuts the frequencies higher or lower than the specified 
frequency. 
The Mid1/2 is a peaking type equalizer, which boosts or cuts the specified frequency and the harmonics 
surrounding the frequency.
Low frq field	 You can set the low frequency range. 
Low Gain field	 You can adjust the gain of the low frequency range. 
Mid1 frq field	 You can set the frequency of the mid frequency range 1. 
Mid1 Gain field	 You can set the gain of the mid frequency range 1. 
Mid1 Q field	 You can set the band range of the mid frequency range 1.
Mid2 frq field	 You can set the frequency of the mid frequency range 2. 
Mid2 Gain field	 You can set the gain of the mid frequency range 2. 
Mid2 Q field	 You can set the frequency range of the mid frequency range 2.  
High frq field	 You can set the frequency of the high frequency range. 
High Gain field	 You can set the gain of the high frequency range. 
COMPRESSOR 
This effect compresses sound which exceeds a certain level, to make the sound levels even. 
Threshold field: any signals, which exceed the level set here, will be compressed. The lower the value is, the 
better the result will be. 
Gain field	 You can adjust the overall level here. As you lower the value in the Threshold field, the 
overall level is also lowered. You can adjust the final level in this field. 
Ratio field	 You can set the compression ratio here. The larger you set the value, the greater the 
compression becomes and you can make the overall level even. 
Attack field	 You can set the time it takes to start the compression after the incoming signal 
exceeds the level set in the Threshold field. 
Release field	  You can set the time it takes to finish the compression after the incoming signal falls 
below the level set in the Threshold field.
PHASE SHIFTER 
This effect adds sounds with different phases to the original sound, to create a swelling or rotating sound. 
Sweep rate field	 You can set the speed of the modulation here. 
Offset L/R field	 You can set the amount of the phase shift of L and R. If you set this field to 00, L and R 
will be in sync. As you increase the value, the phases of the L and R will shift and you 
can create the complicated effect. 
Feedback field	 You can set the feed back level from the output to the effect input. The effect will be 
boosted and create more a unique sound. 
Sweep width field	 You can set the depth of the modulation here. 
Mid point field	 You can set the center frequency for the phase shift. If you set this value high, the 
phase shift will be applied around the high frequency range. 
L/R sweep sync field	 If you set it to ON, the Sweep rate will be set at the same cycle for both the Left and 
Right. If you set to OFF, the sweep rate of the right channel will be set slightly higher 
than that of the left channel. You will be able to create a more complicated effect. Effect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-71-


TREMOLO 
TREMOLO changes the sound level periodically to add a periodic modulation to the amplitude of sound.
Rate field	 You can set the speed of the modulation. 
Depth field	 You can set the depth of the modulation. 
Invert field	 You can set the inversion of the L/R modulation. When set to OFF, both L and R will be 
modulated in the same way. When set to ON, L and R will be inverted to create a more 
complex effect. 
FLYING PAN 
This effect changes the normal position of the sound periodically and creates the effect , in which it makes the 
sound feel like is is rotating around your head. 
Sweep rate field	 You can set the speed of the sound rotation. The higher the value is, the faster the 
rotation becomes.
Width field	 You can set the shift range of the position (move range). If you set this value higher, 
the position of the sound changes more drastically. 
Sweep curve bend field	 You can set the type of the movement of the position.
Pan low field	 You can set how to move the position. If you select LINER, the position moves 
horizontally. If you select ROTATE, the position rotates in circle. 
REVERB 
This effect adds the reverberation to the original sound, to give the spatial effect and depth to the sound. 
Input filter field	 You can set the cut off frequency of the low-pass filter that you wish to apply to the 
input signal.
Time field	 You can set the length of the reverb. If you set this value higher, you can enhance the 
special scope of the sound. 
HF damp field	 You can set the quality of the reverb. The lower value creates harder sounds, and the 
higher value creates a softer sound. 
Reverb level field	 You can set the level of the reverb. 
CHORUS and FLANGER 
FLANGER adds modulated delay sounds to the original sound to give a ringing effect to the sound.
Both CHORUS and FLANGER add modulated delay sounds to the original sound to give a ringing effect to the 
sound. The settings are the same for both effects. 
Note: You can select CHORUS and FLANGER only in the FX2.
Slow sweep rate field	 You can set the modulation speed here. 
Slow sweep depth field	 You can set the depth of the modulation here. 
Vibrato rate field	 You can set the detailed speed of the modulation here.
Vibrato depth field	 You can set the detailed depth of the modulation here. 
Feedback field	 You can set the feed back level from the output to the effect input. The effect will be 
boosted and create a more unique sound.
L/R sweep sync field	 If you set it to ON, the Sweep rate will be set at the same cycle for both the Left and 
Right. If you set it to OFF, the sweep rate of the right channel will be set slightly higher 
than that of the left channel and you can also create a more complicated effect.Effect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-72-


Using the master effect
The master effect is applied to the overall sound from the stereo out. You can use it separately from the effects of 
FX1 and FX2. The effects you can use as the master effect are a 4 band equalizer and compressor. With these 
effects you can add the final touches to the sound. 
01. In the EFFECT mode, press the [F4] (MASTER) key. 
The MASTER page will be displayed. In the MASTER page, you can edit the master effect.
02. To use the 4 band EQ, select ON in the EQ field. 
03. To use the compressor, select ON in the Compressor field.
Note: If you use neither effects, set these fields to OFF. 
Editing the master effects
In this section, you will learn how to edit the master effects in details. 
4 band EQ
This is the 4 band EQ (equalizer), which consists of two shelving type Eqs for a high 
frequency and a low frequency and a 2 band parametric EQ. With the equalizers, 
you can boost or lower a specific frequency to control the sound from the stereo out. 
H field, L field
You can set the frequency and the gain of the equalizers for high frequency (H) and low frequency (L). You can 
set the frequency in the left field and the gain in the right field. 
If you increase the gain in the H field, you can boost the frequency that is higher than the selected frequency. 
If you lower the gain, you can lower the level of the frequency that is higher than the selected frequency. 
If you increase the gain in the L field, you can boost the frequency lower than the selected frequency. If you 
lower the gain, you can lower the level of the frequency lower than the selected frequency. 
1 field, 2 field
You can set the parametric equalizer, which can control the sound around the selected frequency. 
The field has the settings for frequency, gain and Q (from the left). 
If you increase the gain, you can boost the sound around the selected frequency. If you lower the gain, you can 
lower the level of the sound around the selected frequency. 
Q setting determines how to change the sound around the selected frequency when you change the gain 
setting. If you set this value larger, only the narrow range around the selected frequency will be changed. As 
you lower the value, the range will be wider. 
Compressor
This effect compresses the signal level that exceeds the selected level to make the volume even as a whole. 
The fields are the same as those of the COMPRESSOR, which is selected in the FX1 and 2. Effect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-73-



Editing the effect set
The effect set is a set of FX1/FX2/MAIN effect types and their settings. Each effect set can have different settings 
individually. You can switch the effect sets in the Eff field of the SELECT page. 
Tips: You can switch the effect sets within the sequence by entering the EFFECT SELECT event to the sequence. 
For more information, see the “Step editing” section on page 30. 
In this section, you will learn how to change the name of, copy, and reset the effect set. 
Changing the name of the effect set
01. In the Eff field of the SELECT page, press the [WINDOW] key.
The Effect Set window will be displayed.
02. In the Effect name field, turn the DATA wheel.
The Name window will be displayed and you can change the effect set name. For more information about the 
operation in the Name window, see page 8.
03. In the Name window, press the [F5] (ENTER).
It confirms the name and closes the Name window.
Copying the effect set
01. In the Eff field of the SELECT page, press the [WINDOW] key.
The Effect Set window will be displayed.
02. In the Effect Set window, press the [F5] (COPY) key. 
The Copy Effect Set window will be displayed. 
03. In the Eff field (up), select the source effect set.
04. In the Eff field (down), select the destination effect set. 
05. Press the [F3] (DO IT) key. 
The effect set selected in the Eff field (up) will be copied to the effect set selected in the Eff field (down). 
Pressing the [F4] (CANCEL) key cancels the operation and closes the window. 
Resetting the effect set
You can reset the setting for the effect set to the default settings. 
01. In the Eff field of the SELECT page, press the [WINDOW] key. 
The Effect Set window will be displayed. 
02. In the Effect Set window, press the [F2] (RESET) key. 
The Reset Effect Setting window will be displayed. 
03. In the Eff field, select the effect set you wish to reset. 
04. Press the [F5] (DO IT) key. 
The settings of the effect set selected in the Eff field will be reset to the default settings. Pressing the [F4] 
(CANCEL) key cancels the operation and closes the window.Effect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-74-


Chapter 15 : Save / Load
The sample or sequence data you made in the MPC1000 will be deleted when you turn off the unit. If you wish to 
keep the data, you need to save it to a memory card. You can use the saved files again by loading them into the 
MPC1000. 
About a memory card:
The MPC1000 can use the memory card called “compact flash”.The MPC1000 comes with one 32MB (megabyte) 
compact flash card. You can use any memory card that supports compact flash. 
Tips: MB  indicates the size of the memory card. The larger this number is, the more data you can store. 
Note: The size of the compact flash card that MPC1000 can handle is from 32MB to 2GB.
Note: When you use a new compact flash card with with the MPC1000, you need to format the card before use it. 
For more information about formatting the card, see the “Formatting the memory card” section on page 84.
Saving the data
In this section, you will learn how to save the 
data. This is done in the SAVE page, which can 
be accessed by pressing the [MODE] key and 
then the [PAD 3] (SAVE).
Selecting the destination
You can set the location in the memory card to save the data. Here, you will learn how the data will be saved in the 
memory card and how to select the destination. 
01. Insert a compact flash card in the memory card slot, and press the [MODE] key and then 
the [PAD 3](SAVE).
The SAVE page will be displayed. 
Note: Make sure that you insert the compact flash card completely in the slot. 
02. In the Save to field, select MEMORY CARD.
03. Select the To field and press the [WINDOW] key. 
The Directory window will be displayed. In this 
window, you can browse the contents of the 
memory card. The files in the memory card are 
saved in the directories hierarchically, like other 
computer files. The folder selected in the To field is 
displayed in the left of the directory list, and the 
contents of the folder is displayed in the right of the list. In the picture above, the ROOT folder is selected 
and the folder has an AUTOLOAD folder. 
04. Move through the directory using the left/right cursor keys. 
You can use left/right cursor keys to move through the directories. For example, in the picture above, if you 
press the right cursor key to select the AUTOLOAD folder and then press the right cursor key again, the 
AUTOLOAD folder will be displayed in the left and the contents of the AUTOLOAD folder will be displayed in the 
right. If you press the left cursor key, the cursor will move to the left list, and if you press the left cursor key 
again, the upper directory will be selected and displayed. 
Tips: The ROOT folder indicates the top directory of the memory card. There is no other upper directory. 
05. Select the folder you wish to save the data to. 
The folder whose icon is highlighted (in black) in the left list will be selected as the destination. Even when a 
folder is selected by the cursor in the right list, the folder in the left list will be selected. Save / Load
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-75-



06. Press the [F4] (CLOSE) key.
This closes the window. The folder selected in the Directory window is selected in the To field. 
Tips: You can also select the destination folder in the To field of the SAVE page. You can select a folder in the 
same directory that the currently selected folder is located in, by turning the DATA wheel in the To field. If the 
currently selected folder has a folder inside, you can select that folder (in the lower directory) by pressing the 
right cursor key. You can also move to the upper directory by pressing the left cursor key. 
Creating a new folder
You can create a new folder and select it as the destination. 
01. In the Directory window, select a directory you wish to create a new folder to. 
The new folder will be created in the folder currently selected in the left list. 
02. In the Directory window, press the [F5] (NEW) key. 
The Name window will be opened. Enter the folder name in the window. 
For more information about setting the name, see the “Setting names” section on page 8.
03. In the Name window, press the [F5] (ENTER) key.
The new folder will be created in the selected directory. In the Directory window, the new folder is selected. 
Saving a sample
You can save samples one by one. 
01. In the To field of the SAVE page, select the destination folder. 
02. In the Type field, select SAVE A SAMPLE.
03. In the Item field, select the sample to save. 
You can select the sample data in the memory by turning the DATA wheel.
04. Press the [F6] (DO IT) key.
The MPC1000 starts saving the sample. 
When the destination folder has the data with the same name
If the destination folder already has the data with the same name, the File Exists window will be displayed. 
To cancel the operation, press the [F4] (CANCEL) key. 
To overwrite the data in the memory card with the new data, press the [F2] (REPLAC) key. The data in the memory 
card will be replaced with the new data. 
Pressing the [F5] (RENAME) key brings up the Name window, where you can change the name of the file you are 
about to save. When you enter the name in the Name window and press the [F5] (ENTER) key, the MPC1000 will 
start to save the data.
Saving a program
You can save a program and the samples used for the program. 
01. In the To field of the SAVE page, select the destination folder. 
02. In the Type field, select SAVE A PROGRAM.
03. In the Item field, select the program to save. 
You can select the program data in the memory by turning the DATA.
04. Press the [F6] (DO IT) key.
The Save a Program window will be displayed. 
05. In the Save a Program window, make settings for each field.Save / Load
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-76-


Save field
You can choose whether or not to save the sample data (sounds) with the program data.
WITH SAMPLES	 The MPC1000 will save the program data and the samples used for the program. 
Normally you should select this option. When you load the saved program, the MPC1000 
will load the samples automatically.
PROGRAM ONLY	 The MPC1000 will save only the program data. It does not save the sample data. When 
you are sure that the samples used for the program are in the selected folder, you can 
reduce the time to save the data by selecting this operation.
Replace same samples field
You can set how to handle files when the destination location already has a sample with the same name.
NO	 The MPC1000 will not save the file with the same name. If you loaded the data from the memory card 
and edited only the program, select NO. 
YES	 The MPC1000 will overwrite the data with the new data, which you are about to save. If you have 
loaded the data from the memory card and edited the sample data, select YES.
06. Press the [F5] (DO IT) key.
The MPC1000 will start to save the data. 
Note: If the destination folder already has the data with the same name, the File Exists window will be displayed. 
For more information about the Existing window, see the “Saving a sample” section on page 76. 
Saving all the programs and the samples at the same time
You can save all the programs and the samples in the MPC1000 at the same time.
01. In the To field of the SAVE page, select the destination folder.
02. In the Type field, select SAVE ALL PROGRAMS &SAMPLES.
03. Press the [F6] (DO IT) key.
The Save ALL Programs window will be displayed. 
04. In the Save a Program window, make the settings for each field. 
Make new folder field
When you save the data you can create a new folder, inside in the current folder selected in the To field, and 
save the data in the new folder. When you use SAVE ALL PROGRAMS &SAMPLES, a lot of data may be saved.
 With the Make new folder option, you can easily create a folder for the data you wish to save. 
NO	 The MPC1000 will save the data in the selected folder. A new folder is not created.
YES	 The MPC1000 will create a new folder and save the data in that folder. 
If you select NO, the Replace same files field will be displayed. If the destination folder already has the file with 
the same name, select NO to cancel the operation and select YES to replace the data in the memory card with 
the new data.
When you select YES, the Folder name field will be displayed. Enter the folder name in this field. 
05. Press the [F5] (DO IT) key.
The MPC1000 will start saving the data.
Saving a sequence
You can save sequences one by one. 
01. In the To field of the SAVE page, select the destination folder. 
02. In the Type field, select SAVE A SEQUENCE
03. In the Item field, select the sequence that you wish to save. 
You can select the sequence data in the memory by turning the DATA wheel.Save / Load
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-77-


04. Press the [F6] (DO IT) key.
Save a Sequence window will be displayed.
05. In the Type field, select the file type.
SEQ	 The sequence will be saved as a MPC1000 file. The data specific to the MPC1000 will be saved with 
the sequence. Normally, select this.
MID	 The sequence will be saved as the Format 1 of SMF (Standard MIDI File). The SMF is a file format set 
by MIDI standard. If you wish to load the MPC1000’s sequence data to another sequencer, select 
this option. However, the data specific to the MPC1000 can not be saved. 
06. Press the [F5] (DO IT) key.
The MPC1000 will start saving the data.
Note: If the destination folder already has the data with the same name, the File Exists window will be displayed. 
For more information about the Existing window, see the “Saving a sample” section on page 76.
Saving all the sequences and the songs at the same time
You can save all the sequences and the songs in the MPC1000 at the same time.
The MPC1000 will save the data as one file called “ALL file”, which include all the sequence and the songs, 
instead of saving individual sequences and song files. When you load the ALL file, you can reset all the 
sequences and the songs to the status when they are saved. 
The ALL file includes the effect set data. 
01. In the To field of the SAVE page, select the destination folder.
02. In the Type field, select SAVE ALL SEQS AND SONGS.
03. Press the [F6] (DO IT) key.
The Save ALL Seqs & Songs window will be displayed.
04. In the File name field, select the file name to save. 
05. Press the [F5] (DO IT) key.
The MPC1000 will start saving the data.
Saving all the data in the memory at the same time
You can save sample/program/ALL files at the same time.
When you save the data, a project file will be saved, as well as a sample, program and ALL files. The project file 
does not have actual sample or sequence data, but it has the information about the sample/program/ALL files 
that are saved when you save the data. When you load the project file, the sample/program/ALL files saved with 
the project file will be loaded automatically and set the MPC1000 to the same status when you saved the data. 
For example, if you select SAVE ENTIRE MEMORY when you save the data after finish working on it for the day, 
you can start the MPC1000, the next day, from where you finished the previous day. 
01. In the To field of the SAVE page, select the destination folder.
02. In the Type field, select SAVE ENTIRE MEMORY.
03. Press the [F6] (DO IT) key.
The Save Entire Memory window will be displayed.
04. In the Project name field, select the name of the project file to save. 
05. In the Replace same files field, set how to handle the file when you already have the 
data with the same name as the loading file in the unit.
NO	 The MPC1000 will not save the file with the same name.
YES	 The MPC1000 will overwrite the data by with new file.
06. Press the [F5] (DO IT) key.
The MPC1000 will start saving the data.Save / Load
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-78-


Creating the Autoload folder 
When you create an AUTOLOAD folder on the memory card, the MPC1000 will load the contents of the 
AUTOLOAD folder automatically when you switch on the unit with the memory card in the card slot. You can load 
the most frequently used drum set program or sequence data automatically. 
01. In the Type field, select SAVE ENTIRE MEMORY.
AUTOLOAD folder will be created in the ROOT folder, which is located at the top directory, so you do not 
have to select the destination folder. 
02. Press the [F6] (DO IT) key.
The Save Entire Memory window will be displayed.
03. Press the [F2] (A.LOAD) key.
The Save Auto load File window will be displayed.
04. Press the [F5] (DO IT) key.
The MPC1000 will create the AUTO LOAD folder in the ROOT folder and save all the data in that folder. 
If the ROOT folder already has the AUTOLOAD folder, the Autoload Folder Exists window will be displayed. 
To replace the current AUTO LOAD folder with a new one, press the [F2] (REPLAC) key. In this case, the 
contents of the current AUTOLOAD folder will be deleted. 
To keep the current AUTOLOAD folder, press the [F4] (CANCEL) key to cancel the operation, go to the 
Directory folder and change the name of the current AUTOLOAD folder. 
Loading a file 
In this section, you will learn how to load a file 
from the memory card. This is done in the LOAD 
page, which is accessed by pressing the [MODE] 
key and then the [PAD 2] (LOAD). 
Selecting a file
To select a file to load, proceed as follows:
01. Press the [MODE] key and the [PAD 2] (LOAD).
The LOAD page will be displayed. To load a file from the memory card, insert the compact flash card in the 
memory card slot. 
Note: Make sure that you insert the compact flash card completely in the slot.
02. Select the LOAD from field and select the memory you wish to load the data from. 
INTERNAL MEMORY	 The MPC1000 will load the data from the internal preset memory. Normally, when you 
switch on the MPC1000, it will load the data from the preset memory, but you can 
load these files individually by selecting INTERNAL MEMORY in this field. 
MEMORY CARD	 The MPC1000 will load the files from the memory card in the card slot. 
03. Select the folder field or File field, and press the [WINDOW] key. 
The Directory window will be displayed. You can also select a file in the folder, and in the File field of the 
LOAD page, but it is easier to use the Directory window, which displays the files in the list. 
In the Directory window, you can browse the files in 
the memory. The files in the memory card are saved 
in the directories hierarchically, like the other 
computer files. Save / Load
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-79-



The folder selected in the folder field is displayed in the left of the directory list, and the 
files selected in the File field are displayed in the right of the list. In the picture above, the 
SNARE LOW file in the AUTOLOAD folder is selected. Each file has an icon according to 
their types. 
04. Move through the directory using the left/right cursor keys. 
You can use left/right cursor keys to move through the directories. For example, when a folder is selected in 
the right list, if you select the folder with the cursor and press the right cursor key, the selected folder will be 
moved to the left list and the contents of that folder will be displayed in the right. If you press the left cursor 
key, the upper directory will be displayed. 
Tips: The ROOT folder is the top directory of the memory card. There is no other directory above the ROOT 
folder. 
05. Select the file you wish to load. 
06. Press the [F5] (LOAD) key.
The MPC1000 will start loading the data. The next procedures differ depending on the type of selected file. 
Tips: You can also select files and switch directories in the File field of the LOAD page. You can select a folder 
at the same directory level that the currently selected folder is located in, by turning the DATA wheel in the 
File field. If you have selected a folder in the File filed, you can move to the lower directory by pressing the 
right cursor key. You can also move to the upper directory by pressing the left cursor key in the File field.
About View field…
The View field of the LOAD page is normally set to ALL FILES to display all types of the files in the File field or 
Directory window. You can change the setting of the View to display only the selected type of files. It is useful 
when you need to find a file from a large list of the files. Select the View field and select the file type to display by 
turning the DATA wheel. 
Loading a sample
You can load a sample file one by one. You can also assign the sample to the pad. 
01. Select a sample file and load it. The Load a Sample window will be displayed.
You can listen to the sample by pressing the [F2] (PLAY) key. 
To cancel the loaded sample, press the [F4] (DSCARD) key. 
02. Select the pad to assign the selected sample by hitting it. 
When you hit the pad, the pad number will be displayed in the Assign to pad field. 
If you do not wish to assign the sample to any pad, select OFF by turning the DATA wheel to the left. 
03. Press the [F5] (KEEP) key.
The loaded sample will be assigned to the selected pad. 
Loading a program
You can load a program file one by one.
01. Select a program file and load it. The Load a Program window will be displayed.
To cancel the operation, press the [F4] (CANCEL) key.
02. In the Load field, select if you wish to load the samples as well. 
WITH SAMPLES	 The MPC1000 will load the samples used for the program as well. Normally select this 
option. 
PROGRAM ONLY	 The MPC1000 will load only the program file. It does not load the samples. Select this 
option when you wish to create a new program by assigning different samples to the 
saved program. Save / Load
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-80-



03. If you selected WITH SAMPLES in the Load field, make settings in the Replace same 
samples in memory field. 
You can set how to handle the file when you already have the data with the same name as the loading file in 
the unit.
NO	 The MPC1000 will not load the sample with the same name.
YES	 The MPC1000 will overwrite the data by the new data.
04. Press the [F5] (DO IT) key.
The MPC1000 will start loading the data.
Deleting the data in the memory before loading
When you press the [F2] (CLEAR) key instead of the [F5] (DO IT) key in step 4., you can clear the MPC1000’s 
memory and load only the selected program in the memory.
01. In the step 4, press the [F2] (CLEAR) key instead of the [F5] (DO IT) key.
The CAUTION window will be displayed. If you press the [F5] (DO IT) key, the MPC1000 will start loading the 
program after it clears all its internal memory.
Note: If you do this operation, all the data saved in the unit will be deleted. 
Loading a sequence
You can load a sequence file one by one.
 
01. Select the sequence file and load it. The Load a Sequence window will be displayed.
02. In the Load into field, select the destination sequence number. 
Select the sequence number to load the data to. 
03. Press the [F5] (DO IT) key.
The MPC1000 will start loading the data.
Loading the ALL file
You can load the ALL file, which has sequence and song data. When you load the ALL file, all the sequences 
and songs, which are currently in the MPC1000, will be replaced by the new data. 
01. Select the ALL file and load it. The Load ALL (SEQS&SONGS) File window will be 
displayed.
02. Press the [F5] (DO IT) key.
The MPC1000 will start loading the data.
Loading an individual sequence from the ALL file
You can load an individual sequence from the ALL file. 
01. Select the ALL file and load it. The Load ALL (SEQS&SONGS) File window will be 
displayed.
02. Press the [F3] (SEQ) key. 
The Load a Sequence window will be displayed.
03. In the Load file field, select the sequence to load. 
In the Load file field, you can select a sequence data in the ALL file. 
04. In the Load into field, select the destination sequence. 
Select the sequence number to load the data to.
05. Press the [F5] (DO IT) key.
The MPC1000 will start loading the data.Save / Load
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-81-


Loading only the effect set from the ALL file 
The ALL file has effect set file, which has the effect setting information. You can load only the effect set from 
the ALL file.
01. Select the ALL file and load it. Load ALL (SEQS&SONGS) File window will be displayed.
02. Press the [F2] (EFFECT) key. 
The Load Effect File window will be displayed.
03. In the Load file field, select the effect set to load. 
04. In the Load into field, select the destination effect set. 
Select the effect set number to load the data to. 
If you select ALL in the Load file field, the current effect set in the unit will be replaced by the data from the 
ALL file. 
05. Press the [F5] (DO IT) key.
The MPC1000 will start loading the data.
Loading a folder
You can load a folder and load all the files within the folder at the same time. You can load program, sample, and 
ALL files.
01. Select a folder and load it. The Load Folder window will be displayed. 
02. Make a setting in the Replace same files in memory field.
You can set how to handle the file when you already have the data with the same name as the loading file in 
the unit.
NO	 The MPC1000 will not load the file with the same name.
YES	 The MPC1000 will overwrite the data in the unit by the loaded file. 
03. Press the [F5] (DO IT) key.
The loading will begin. 
Loading the folder after deleting the data in the memory
When you press the [F2] (CLEAR) key instead of the [F5] (DO IT) key in step 3, you can clear the MPC1000’s 
memory and load the selected folder. 
01. In the step 3, press the [F2] (CLEAR) key instead of the [F5] (DO IT) key.
The CAUTION window will be displayed. If you press the [F5] (DO IT) key, the MPC1000 will start loading the 
folder after it clears all its internal memory.
Note: If you do this operation, all the data saved in the unit will be deleted. 
Note: If the folder has several ALL file, the MPC1000 will load only one of them. 
Loading a project
When you use SAVE ENTIRE MEMORY mode to save the data, the MPC1000 will load the project file that will be 
created. When you load a project file, all the data currently saved in the unit will be overwritten by the data that 
the project file will load. 
01. Select a project file and load it. The CAUTION window will be displayed. 
02. Press the [F5] (DO IT) key. 
The loading will begin. Save / Load
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-82-


Renaming a file
You can change the name of the file in the memory card. 
01. In the To field of the SAVE page, press the [WINDOW] key.
The Directory window will be displayed. 
02. Select the desired file with a cursor key. 
You can move through directories with the left/right cursor keys. 
03. Press the [F3] (RENAME) key. 
The Name window will be displayed. 
04. Enter the new name and press the [F5] (ENTER) key.
For more information about setting the name, see the “Setting names” section on page 8. 
Note: If you change the file name, the MPC1000 may not be able to load the file properly. For example, the samples 
used for a program are saved in the program file as the sample name. IF you change the name of the sample 
file, the MPC1000 cannot find it when loading the program. 
Deleting a file
You can delete the files in the memory card. 
01. Open the Directory window in the SAVE page. 
02. Select the desired file with a cursor key. 
You can move through the directories with left/right cursor keys. 
03. Press the [F2] (DELETE) key. 
The Delete File window will be displayed. 
04. Press the [F5] (DO IT) key. 
The selected file will be deleted. 
Note: You can select a folder and delete it. If you delete a folder, all the files in that folder will be deleted. 
Setting the auto load function
In default, the auto load function, which loads the preset sounds and demo sequence automatically when you 
switch on the MPC1000, is activated. You can deactivate this function so that the MPC1000 will not load anything 
when switched on. 
01. Press the [WINDOW] key in the LOAD from field of the LOAD page. 
The Load Setup window will be displayed. 
02. In the Autoload field, set the field to OFF.
03. Press the [F4] (CLOSE) key to close the window. 
Next time you switch on the MPC1000, it will not load anything. 
Tips: You can load the preset sounds and the demo sequence separately by selecting the INTERNAL MEMORY in 
the LOAD from field of the LOAD page.
Tips: When you insert the memory card, which has AUTOLOAD folder, into card slot and switch on the MPC1000, 
the MPC1000 will load the AUTOLOAD folder in the memory card automatically, regardless of the setting in 
the Autoload field. Save / Load
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-83-


Formatting the memory card
You can format the memory card. Please note that if you format the card, all the data in the card will be deleted.
01. Press the [MODE] key and then the [PAD 2] (LOAD) or the [PAD 3] (SAVE).
02. Press the [F3] (UTILIT) key. 
The Utility page will be displayed. 
03. Press the [F6] (DO IT) key. 
The CAUTION window will be displayed.
04. Press the [F5] (DO IT) key. 
The MPC1000 will start formatting the card.  
Saving the data to the internal flash memory
If you select INTERNAL MEMORY in the SAVE to field of the LOAD page, you can save the data to the MPC1000’s 
internal flash memory. This is available only when SAVE ALL PROGRAMS &SAMPLES or SAVE ALL SEQS 
&SONGS is selected in the Type field. You cannot save the individual sample or sequence data.
The saved data will be loaded automatically when you turn on the MPC1000, like the preset program and the demo 
sequence. 
Note: The internal flash memory has the factory preset program and demo sequence. When you save the data into 
the internal flash memory, the new data will overwrite the factory data.
When SAVE ALL SEQS & SONGS is selected	
01. Select INTERNAL MEMORY in the SAVE to field of the Save page.
02. Select SAVE ALL SEQS & SONGS in the Type field.
03. Press the [F6] (DO IT) key. 
The CAUTION window will be displayed. In this window, press the [F5] (DO IT) key. 
The CAUTION window will be displayed again, asking for the confirmation. Press the [F3] (DO IT) key to save 
the data. 
When SAVE ALL PROGRAMS &SAMPLES is selected
The internal flash memory cannot have the file that is larger than 5 MB. Make sure that the value in the Size 
field, which will be displayed when you select SAVE ALL PROGRAMS &SAMPLES in the Type field of the SAVE 
page, does not exceed 5M. 
01. In the SAVE to field of the Save page, select INTERNAL MEMORY.
02. In the Type field, select SAVE ALL PROGRAMS &SAMPLES.
03. Press the [F6] (DO IT) key. 
The CAUTION window will be displayed. In this window, press the [F5] (DO IT) key.
The CAUTION window will be displayed again, asking for the confirmation. Press the [F3] (DO IT) key to save 
the data.
Tips: The INTERNAL folder in the compact flash memory that comes with the MPC1000 contains the same factory 
preset programs and demo sequences that are saved in a MPC1000’s flash memory. You can reset the flash 
memory to the default data, by loading these files from the INTERNAL folder and saving them into the flash 
memory. Save / Load
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-84-


Chapter 16 : Connecting the MPC1000 to your computer
The MPC1000 supports the USB mass storage class. When you connect the MPC1000 to a PC that supports USB 
mass storage class, the PC will recognize the memory card in the MPC1000 as a removable media drive. You can 
transfer the data between the recognized memory card and the PC.
You can save the data on the memory card to the PC, or you can load the data from the PC to the memory card. 
You need Windows 2000/Me/XP or later version, or MacOS 9.x/10.x or later version. 
Note: The computer cannot recognize the MPC1000's internal memory directly. To save the data in the internal 
memory to the computer, you need to save the data to the memory card first. Also, the data from the 
computer will be saved to the memory card. To use the data in the MPC1000, load the data from the memory 
card. 
Connecting the MPC1000 to a Windows-based PC 
01. Insert the memory card in the card slot of the MPC1000.
02. Press the [MODE] key and then the [PAD 2] (LOAD), or the [PAD 3] (SAVE).
03. In the LOAD page or SAVE page, press the [F4] (USB) key. 
This brings up the USB page, which you use to connect the MPC1000 to the PC. That is all for the MPC1000.
04. Connect the MPC1000’s USB slave jack to the PC’s USB host jack via USB cable. 
05. When you connect the MPC1000 to the PC for the first time, the message, " Found New 
Hardware " will be displayed and follow the instruction on the display. 
Once the PC recognizes the MPC1000, its “Removal” icon will be displayed in the task bar. In the Device 
Manager, the MPC1000 will be displayed as a USB Mass Storage Device. 
06. In My computer, the MPC1000 is displayed as a removable disk.
To save the data to a PC, select the data and drag and drop it from the removable disk to the hard disk. 
To load the data, select the data and drag and drop it from the hard disk to the removal media. 
07. When you finish the data transfer, click the “Removal” icon on the PC’s task bar and 
select the “ Stop USB Mass Storage Device - Drive( :)" .
Note: In the “ ( :)”, the alphabet is displayed, which indicates the drive in the PC. 
When you select to stop the device, the “'USB Mass Storage Device is ready to remove safely.” dialog box 
will be displayed. 
08. Remove the USB cable from the USB jacks of the MPC1000 and the PC.
Note: Make sure that you do Step 07 "Remove the device" before disconnecting the USB cable.
Note: You can transfer the data between the MPC1000 and the PC only when the USB page is displayed. 
You can not move to another page or mode from USB page unless you disconnect the USB cable.Connecting the MPC1000 to your computer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-85-


Connecting the MPC1000 to the Macintosh 
01. Insert the memory card to the MPC1000’s card slot. 
02. Press the [MODE] key and then the [PAD 2] (LOAD), or [PAD 3] (SAVE). 
03. In the LOAD page, or the SAVE page, press the [F4] (USB) key. 
This brings up the USB page, which you use to connect the MPC1000 to the PC. That is all for the MPC1000.
04. Connect the MPC1000’s USB slave jack to your computer’s USB host jack via USB 
cable. 
05. Removal media will be displayed on the desktop.
To save the data in the computer, select the data and drag and drop it from the removable disk to the hard 
disk. To load the data from the computer, select the data and drag and drop it from the hard disk to the 
removal media.
06. After you finish the data transfer, select the removable media and drag and drop to the 
trash can. 
When you drag the removal media to the Dock’s recycle bin under Mac OS 10.x, the icon will change to the 
eject icon. 
07. Remove the USB cable from the USB jacks of the MPC1000 and the computer. 
Note: Make sure that you do Step 06 before disconnecting the USB page.
Note: You can transfer the data between the MPC1000 and the PC only when the USB page is displayed.
You can not move to another page or mode from USB page unless you disconnect the USB cable. Connecting the MPC1000 to your computer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-86-


Chapter 17 : Other settings
In this section, you will learn about the other features, which were not mentioned in the other chapters. 
Foot switch 
You can connect up to 2 foot switch to the MPC1000 and assign several functions (ex. Start/Stop a sequence, etc
…) to them.
01. Connect a foot switch to the MPC1000’s FOOTSWITCH jack. 
02. Press the [MODE] key, and then the [PAD 10] (OTHER). 
You will enter to the OTHER mode. 
03. Press the [F3] (FOOTSW) key. 
This brings up the FOOTSW page, where you can make settings for the foot switch.
04. Select the function to assign to the foot switch 1 in the Footswitch 1 field, and the 
function to assign to the foot switch 2 in the Footswitch 2 field. 
You can select the following functions. 
PLAY START	 It works the same as the PLAY START key. 
PLAY	 It works the same as the PLAY key. 
STOP	 It works the same as the STOP key.
PLAY/STOP	 When you step on the switch in stop mode, the MPC1000 will start the playback. 
When you step on the switch in play mode, the MPC1000 will stop the playback. 
REC+PLAY	 It works as the same when you press the REC key and the PLAY key 
simultaneously (recording). 
OVER DUB+PLAY	 It works as the same when you press the OVER DUB and PLAY key 
simultaneously (overdub). 
REC/PUNCH	 When you step on the switch in stop mode, the MPC1000 will start the playback, 
when you step on the switch in play mode, it starts recording, in recording mode, it 
starts playback. 
OVER DUB/PUNCH	 When you step on the switch in stop mode, the MPC1000 will start the playback, 
when you step on the switch in play mode, it starts overdubbing, in overdub mode, 
it starts playback.
TEMPO TAP	 It works the same as the TEMPO/NOTE REPEAT key.
PAD1 through 16	 The MPC1000 will play the selected pad at the fixed velocity of 127 (maximum). 
F1 through F6	 They work the same as the function keys 1 through 6. 
PAD BANK A through D	 They work the same as the PAD BANK keys. Other settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-87-


Adjusting the master level
You can adjust the level of the headphone and the stereo out by turning the MAIN VOLUME knob. The MAIN
VOLUME changes the analog signal level. This will also adjust the entire level of the MPC1000 digitally. 
01. Press the [MODE] key and then the [PAD 10] (OTHER). 
It switches to the OTHER mode. 
02. Press the [F1] (GLOBAL) key. 
The GLOBAL page will be displayed. 
03. In the Master level field, set the level. 
You will set the digital signal level, which will be sent out to the DA converter. The MPC1000 can output up to 
32 sounds simultaneously. There is the great difference in the level when you play single sample and play 32 
sounds. If you increase the value in the Mater level field, you can increase the entire level of the MPC1000 to 
create more powerful sound with less noise. However, if you playback many sounds at the same time, the 
level may be overloaded, which may cause distortion. If you decrease the value in the Master level field, you 
can prevent distortion when you play many sounds at the same time. However, you cannot have a good 
result in respect to the noise or punch of the sound. Set the appropriate value in the Master level field 
depending on the application. 
Adjusting the contrast of LCD
You can adjust the contrast of the LCD display by turning the DATA wheel with holding [SHIFT] key. Adjusting the 
contrast of LCD can be done in any page.
Initialize to Factory Preset
Various Sample and Sequence settings can be saved to Compact Flash when the file is saved. The global settings 
found in the MPC1000 (listed below) are saved to the internal Flash Memory and stored when the MPC1000 is 
turned off. You can re-initialize the Factory Preset settings using the following procedure.
01. Turn the MPC1000 on while holding the [ERASE] key.
02. Release the [ERASE] key after the display shows [ MPC1000 (##MB installed)].
 Now the MPC1000 is reset to the Factory Preset settings.
The following global settings are stored in the MPC1000 : 
Timing Correct (Note value, Swing%) 
Click/Metronome (Count in, Rate, In play, In rec)
Step Edit Options (Auto step increment, Duration of recorded notes)
Active track receive channel
Soft thru
Sync in
Sync out
Master level
Sustain pedal to duration
Truncate duration
Tap average
Footswitch 1
Footswitch 2
Autoload
LCD contrastOther settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-88-


Index
  [%]
% field 	   32
  [1]
1 - 4 field 	   58
16 level function 	   40
  [A]
Active track receive channel field 	   47
AFTER key 	   44
Amount field 	   27
Assign pad field 	   44
Assign to pad field 	   49
Attack field 	   61
Auto step increment field 	   34
Autoload field 	   83
  [B]
Bars field 	   36
  [C]
CC field 	   32
Channel pressure event 	   33
Click/Metronome feature 	   14
Control change event 	   32
Copies field 	   26
Count in field 	   14
Current tempo field 	   32
Cursor, Cursor Keys 	   7
  [D]
D field 	   31/32
DATA Wheel 	   7
Dcy md field 	   61
Decay field 	   61
Drum Pad 	   5
Duration of recorded notes field 	   34
  [E]
Edit field 	   25
End field 	   53
Erase feature 	   12
Event field 	   30
Event list 	   30
Event time field 	   30
Exclusive data event 	   33  [F]
Field 	   7
Footswitch field 	   87
Freq field 	   63
Full level function 	   40
Function Keys 	   7
FX Send field 	   68/69
FX1 type field 	   69
FX2 type field 	   70
  [H]
High range/Low range field 	   44
HOLD key 	   43
  [I]
Ignore tempo change events in sequence field 	   39
In play field 	   14
In rec field 	   15
Initial tempo field 	   32
Input field 	   48
  [L]
Layer 1 field 	   59
Load field 	   80
LOAD from field 	   79
Lp field 	   56
Lvl field 	   59
  [M]
MAIN Page 	   7
Make new folder field 	   77
Master level field 	   88
Memory Card 	   6
MIDI 	   22
MIDI sequencer 	   22
MODE key 	   8
Monitor field 	   51
Mute group field 	   64
  [N]
N field 	   32
Note event 	   32
Note repeat feature 	   15
Note variation field 	   31
Note variation value field 	   31
Now field 	   10
NUMERIC key 	   9
  Index
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-89-


[O]
Out field 	   67
  [P]
P field 	   31
Pad banks 	   40
Pad event 	   31
Parameter field 	   44
Peak hold/Reset peak feature 	   51
Pgm field 	   58
Pitch bend event 	   32
Poly pressure event 	   33
Program 	   6
Program change event 	   33
Punch In/Punch Out feature 	   15
  [R]
RAM 	   6
Range field 	   60
Rate field 	   14
Reference sq field 	   29
Replace same files field 	   78
Replace same files in memory field 	   82
Replace same samples field 	   77
Replace same samples in memory field 	   81
Reps field 	   36/37
Reso field 	   63
  [S]
Sample 	   5
Sample field 	   52
Save field 	   77
Send level field 	   70
Sequence 	   5
Sequence field 	   36
Sequence list 	   42
Soft thru field 	   46
Solo function 	   41
Song 	   5
Song field 	   36
Sq field 	   10
St field 	   52
Start/loop link field 	   57
Step field 	   36
Step list 	   36
SUDDEN key 	   42
Sustain pedal 	   24
Sustain pedal to duration field 	   24
Swing feature 	   13
Sync in field 	   45
Sync out field 	   45  [T]
Tap tempo feature 	   16
Tempo change event 	   32
Tempo field 	   36
Threshold field 	   48
Timing correct feature 	   13
To FX2 field 	   70
Tr field 	   10
Track 	   5
Track list  	   41
Track mute feature 	   20
Track type 	   20
Truncate duration field 	   19
Tune field 	   59
Type field (16 Levels) 	   40
Type field (Program) 	   63
  [U]
Undo Sequence feature 	   12
  [V]
V field 	   31/32
V>Freq field 	   64
V>Level field 	   59
View field 	   30/80
Voice overlap field 	   64
  [W]
WINDOW key 	   7Index
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-90-


Specifications
General
Display 240 x 64 dot graphic LCD w/back light
Memory card slotCompact Flash  (The size of the compact flash card the MPC1000 can
 handle is from 32MB to 2GB)
Dimentions (W x H x D) 330 x 75.5 x 228.2(Max 234.6)
Weight 3.45kg
Power reqirement 19W
Sound generator
Sampling rate 44.1kHz
Memory capacity 16MB standard (11.5MB for sound memory), expandable to 128MB
Recording time 136sec. (16MB, MONO), 24m28sec. (128MB, MONO)
Memory expansion slot 1 x for optional EXM128
Data format 16-bit linear
Polyphony 32
Dynamic filtering 2 x 2-pole filter per voice
Filter type Low pass, Band pass, High pass
Preset sound memory 5MB
Number of programs 24
Effects
Effects 2 stereo effects and Master effect
Effect typeChorus, Flanger, Bit grunger, 4 band EQ, Compressor, Phase shifter,
Tremolo, Flying pan, Reverb
Master effect: 4 band EQ, Compressor
Sequencer
Maximum events 100,000 notes
Resolution 96 parts per 1/4-note
Sequences 99
Tracks per sequence 64
MIDI output channels 32 (16 channels x 2 outputs)
Song mode 20 songs, 250 steps per song
Drum pad 16 (velocity and pressure sensitive)
Drum pad banks 4
Sync mode MIDI clockSpecifications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-91-


Inputs / Outputs
Record input (L and R)1/4-inch stereo phone x 2, balanced -40dBu, input impedance 11k ohms; 
Max. Input level +10dBu
Digital input RCA-pin x 1 S/PDIF
Stereo output (L and R)1/4-inch phone x 2 unbalanced +11dBu, output impedance 1k Ohms, Max. 
output level +17dBu
4 individual outputs1/4-inch phone x 4 unbalanced +11dBu, output impedance 1k Ohms, Max. 
output level +17dBu
Phones output 1/4-inch stereo phone x 1,  200mW / 100 ohms
Digital output RCA-pin x 1 S/PDIF
MIDI inputs 5-pin DIN x 2
MIDI outputs 5-pin DIN x 2
USBSlave connector x 1, USB MASS STORAGE CLASS support.
(You need Windows 2000/Me/XP or later version, or MacOS 9.x/10.x or later
 version. )
Footswitches 1/4-inch phone x 2
Standard accessories
Standard accessories 32MB Compact Flash card, Power cable, Operator's manual
Options
EXM128 128MB expansion memory card
Data Compatibility (THRU Computer)
MPC2000XL SEQ, WAV, PGM (Most parameters of PGM file can be loaded.)
MPC4000SEQ, WAV , PGM (DRUM program only. Only note assign and tune are 
loaded.)
MPC3000 No compatibility
Z4/Z8 WAV only
S5000/6000 WAV only
S1000/3000 No compatibilitySpecifications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
-92-


AKAI professional M.I. Corp.   [MUSIC PRODUCTION CENTER]	  Date : October, 2003
Model : MPC1000 (Sampler Section)	 Version : 1.0
MIDI Implementation Chart
Mode 1 : OMNI ON, POLY	 Mode 2 : OMNI ON, MONO	 O : YES
Mode 3 : OMNI OFF, POLY	 Mode 4 : OMNI OFF, MONO	 X : NOMIDI Implementation Chart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-93-Function *** Transmited Recognized Remarks
Basic Channel Default X 1 - 16
Changed X 1 - 16
Mode Default X 1
Messages X X
Altered X X
Note Number X 35 - 98
True Voice X 35 - 98
Velocity Note on X O
Note off X X
After Touch Key's X X
Ch's X O Used in Note Repeat feature
Pitch Bend X X
Control Change 0 - 127 X X
Program Change 
True #X 0 - 127
System Exclusive X X
System Common : Song Position X X
: Song Select X X
: Tune X X
System Real Time : Clock X X
: Commands X X
Aux Messages : Local on/off X X
: All Note Off X O
: Active Sense X X
: Reset X X
Notes:


AKAI professional M.I. Corp.   [ MUSIC PRODUCTION CENTER ]	  Date : October, 2003
Model : MPC1000 (Sequencer Section)	 Version : 1.0
MIDI Implementation Chart
Mode 1 : OMNI ON, POLY	 Mode 2 : OMNI ON, MONO	 O : YES
Mode 3 : OMNI OFF, POLY	 Mode 4 : OMNI OFF, MONO	  X : NOMIDI Implementation Chart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-94-Function *** Transmited Recognized Remarks
Basic Channel Default 1 - 16 1 - 16
Changed 1 - 16 1 - 16
Mode Default 3 1
Messages X X
Altered X X
Note Number 0 - 127 0 - 127
True Voice 0 - 127 0 - 127
Velocity Note on O O
Note off X X
After Touch Key's O O
Ch's O O
Pitch Bend O O
Control Change 0 - 127 O O
Program Change 
True #O
0 - 127O
0 - 127
System Exclusive O O
System Common : Song Position O O
: Song Select X X
: Tune X X
System Real Time : Clock O O
: Commands O O
Aux Messages : Local on/off X X
: All Note Off O X
: Active Sense X X
: Reset X X
Notes: 


Preset Programs List 
MPC1000’s internal flash memory and the compact flash memory card that comes with the unit have the following 
factory preset programs. 
Internal Flash Memory
DJ-Hip_Set
Nuskool_Set
 Ill_Hip_Set
 E_Kit
 Standard_Set
 UK_Kit
 R-D&B_Set
 LA_Kit R_Bass
Rock_GTR
Arp_Wave
Str&Bass
M_Bass
Compact Flash Memory Card
"Autoload" folder "INTERNAL" folder
Top_Set
Sunny_Set
Wanna_Do_Set
Time_Set
Studio_Set
Rock_Set
Dry_Set
Synth_Set
Dry_Kit2
LA_Kit2
Dance_Kit
House_Kit1
House_Kit2
Hip_Kit
J-Percussion
Samba_Kit DJ-Hip_Set
 Nuskool_Set
 Ill_Hip_Set
 E_Kit
 Standard_Set
 UK_Kit
 R-D&B_Set
 LA_Kit
 R_Bass
Rock_GTR
Arp_Wave
Str&Bass
M_Bass
Note: The internal flash memory and the compact flash memory card also have the demo sequence, which is 
created with the preset program.
Tips: The INTERNAL folder in the compact flash memory that comes with the MPC1000 contains the same factory 
preset programs and demo sequences that are saved in a MPC1000’s flash memory. Preset Programs List
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
-95-


