


www.nektartech.com                                                           Nektar Impact LX49, LX61 & LX88 User Guide       
 
User Guide  
www.nektartech.com  



2    Nektar Impact LX49, LX61 & LX88 User Guide                                                        www.nektartech.com   
Index  
Introduction          4 
 Box Content  
 Impact LX Features  
 Minimum System Requirements  
Getting Started          5 
 Connection and Power  
 Nektar DAW integration  
 Register for Updates  
Installing and Setting Up Studio One Artist      6 
 Installation  
 Studio One Pro  
Studio One and Impact LX Working Together      7 
 All Working Fine?  
 Transport?  
Studio One Mixer Control        8 
 Open/close the Studio One Mixer Window  
 Channel Volume & Pan  
 Mute & Solo  
 Bank Over (1 -8), (9 -16) etc  
 Master Volume  
Studio One Instrument Control        9-10 
 First-time Setup  
 Open/close the Instrument Window  
 Changing Patches and Controlling an Instrument  
 Viewing Assigned Controls  
 Customizing Plug -in Mapping  
 Navigating Insert Plug -ins 
Studio One Drum Instrument        11 
 “Learning” Studio One Impact Sounds to the Pads  
 Mixing Studio One Impact Drum Sounds  
Keyboard, Octave and Transpose       12 
 Octave Shift  
 Program, MIDI Channel and Preset Control with the Octave Buttons  
 Transpose, Program, MIDI Channel and Preset Control with the Transpose Buttons  
Layer & Split (Impact LX88 only)       13 
 Layer  
 Split 
 Setting Octave and MIDI Channel using the Transpose Buttons  
 Sending MIDI Program Messages  
Wheels and Foot Switch         14 
 Pitch Bend and Modulation Wheels  
 Foot Switch  
 Switching Wheels and Foot Switch On/Off for Layer/Split (LX88 only)  
Controlling MIDI Software        15-16 
 Mixer, Instrument and Presets  
 Global Controls  
Function Buttons         17 
 Shift/Mute  
 Snapshot  
 Null 
 Pad Learn  


www.nektartech.com                                                           Nektar Impact LX49, LX61 & LX88 User Guide    3  
Index  
Pads           18 
 Pad Maps  
 Pad Learn  
 Programming MIDI Messages to Pads  
 Pad Velocity Curves  
Pad Maps Default Settings        19 
Setup Menu          20 
Assigning Controls to MIDI Messages       21-23 
 Control Assign  
 MIDI Channel Assign  
 Assignment Types  
 Data 1 and Data 2 Values  
 Drawbar (on/off)  
 Save Presets and Pad Maps  
 Load a Preset  
Global Functions and Options        24-27 
 Global MIDI Channel  
 Setting the Layer & Split MIDI Channels (LX88 only)  
 Keyboard Velocity Curves  
 Pads Velocity Curves  
 Panic  
 Program  
 Sending Program Messages via Layer & Split (LX88 only)  
 Bank LSB  
 Bank MSB  
 Sending Bank LSB/MSB Messages via Layer & Split (LX88 only)  
 Memory Dump  
 MIDI Out from USB (LX88 only)  
 USB Port Setup  
 Setting the Virtual USB Port for Layer & Split (LX88 only)  
User Presets 1 -5 Default Settings       28-32 
Factory Restore          33 
 
 
CALIFORNIA PROP65 WARNING:  This product contains chemicals known to the State of California to cause cancer and birth defects or other reproductive harm . 
For more information: www.nektartech.com/prop65  
Dispose of product securely, avoiding exposure to food sources and ground water. Only use the product in accordance with the instructions.  
Note: This equipment has been tested and found to comply with the limits for a Class B digital device, pursuant to part 15 of the F CC Rules. These limits are designed 
to provide reasonable protection against harmful interference in a residential installation. This equipment generates, uses a nd can radiate radio frequency energy and, 
if not installed and used in accordance with the instructions, may cause harmful interference to radio communications. Howeve r, there is no guarantee that interfer-
ence will not occur in a particular installation. If this equipment does cause harmful interference to radio or television re ception, which can be determined by turning 
the equipment off and on, the user is encouraged to try to correct the interference by one or more of the following measures:  
—Reorient or relocate the receiving antenna.  
—Increase the separation between the equipment and receiver.  
—Connect the equipment into an outlet on a circuit different from that to which the receiver is connected.  
—Consult the dealer or an experienced radio/TV technician for help.  
 
 
 
Impact firmware, software and documentation are the property of Nektar Technology, Inc and subject to a License Agreement.  
© 2014 Nektar Technology, Inc. All specifications subject to change without notice. Nektar is a trademark of Nektar Technolog y, Inc.  
Studio One is a trademark of PreSonus Software, Ltd., registered in the U.S. and other countries  
Impact LX49, LX61 & LX88  


4    Nektar Impact LX49, LX61 & LX88 User Guide                                                        www.nektartech.com   
Introduction  
Thank you for buying our Impact LX controller keyboard from Nektar Technology.  
The Impact LX controllers are available in 25, 49, 61 and 88 note versions and come with setup software for many of the 
most popular DAWs. This means that for supported DAWs, the setup work has largely been done and you can focus on 
expanding your creative horizon with your new controller. The Nektar DAW support adds functionality that makes the user 
experience more transparent when you combine the power of your computer with Nektar Impact LX. Throughout this guide 
we refer to Impact LX where the text is applicable to LX49, LX61 and LX88. The  models operate largely identically, except 
where indicated in this manual.  
 
You also get a full version of Presonus Studio One Artist  2.6 software which of course feature Impact LX integration.  
In addition, the Impact LX range allow for complete user configurable MIDI control so if you prefer to create your own setups , 
you can do that too. We hope you will enjoy playing, using and being creative with Impact LX as much as we have enjoyed 
creating it.  
 
Box Content  
Your Impact LX box contains the following items:  
 The Impact LX Controller keyboard  
 Printed Guide  
 A standard USB cable  
 DVD containing DAW installation files and full version of Presonus Studio One Artist.  
If any of the items above are missing, please let us know via email: stuffmissing@nektartech.com  
 
Impact LX Features  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Minimum System Requirements  
As a USB class compliant device, Impact LX can be used from Windows XP or higher and any version of Mac OS X.  
The DAW integration files can be installed on Windows Vista/7/8 or higher and Mac OS X 10.7 or higher.  
The included Studio One Artist minimum system requirements are listed below.   49,  61 or 88 -note full -sized velocity sensitive keys  
 8 velocity sensitive MIDI pads  
 9 MIDI assignable faders  
 9 MIDI assignable buttons  
 8 MIDI assignable controller pots  
 6 transport buttons  
 Assignable Pitch Bend and Modulation Wheels  
 Octave up/down buttons (LX49 & LX61 only)  
 Transpose up/down buttons  
 Mixer, Instrument and Preset selection buttons  
 5 Function buttons including Mute, Snapshot, Null, 
Pad Learn and Setup  
 5 User configurable presets  
 2 read -only presets (Mixer/Instrument)   4 pad map presets  
 Shift functions for Nektar DAW integration  
 3 character, 7 segment LED display  
 USB port (back) and USB bus powered  
 Power on/off switch (back)  
 1/4” jack Foot Switch socket (Back)  
 Connect to iPad via Apple USB Camera Connection Kit  
 Nektar DAW support integration  
 PreSonus Studio One Artist 2.6 included  
 Semi-weighted keybed (LX88 only)  
 Layer and Split buttons (LX88 only)  
 MIDI out (LX88 only)  
 DC socket (LX88 only)  
Mac 
Mac® OS X 10.7.2 or later  
Intel® Core™ Duo processor (Intel Core 2 Duo or Core 
i3 or better recommended)  
2 GB RAM (4 GB or more recommended)  Windows  
Windows® 7 x64/x86 SP1, Windows 8 x64/x86  
Intel Core Duo or AMD Athlon™ X2 processor (Intel 
Core 2 Duo or AMD Athlon X4 or better recommended)  
2 GB RAM (4 GB or more recommended)  Mac and Windows systems  
Internet connection (not required on machine where 
Studio One is installed but needed for activation)  
DVD-ROM drive  
Monitor with 1280x768 resolution  
20 GB hard -drive space  


www.nektartech.com                                                           Nektar Impact LX49, LX61 & LX88 User Guide    5  
Getting Started  
Connection and Power  
The Impact LX is USB Class compliant. This means there is no driver to install to get the keyboard set up with your computer.  
Impact LX uses the built -in USB MIDI driver which is already part of your operating system on Windows and  
OS X.  
 
This makes the first steps simple:  
 Locate the included USB cable and plug one end in to your computer and the other in to your Impact LX  
 If you want to connect a foot switch to control sustain, plug it in to the 1/4” jack socket on the back of the keyboard  
 Set the power switch on the back of the unit to On  
 
Your computer will now spend a few moments identifying the Impact LX and subsequently you will be able to set it up for 
your DAW.  
 
LX88: An optional 9V 600mA DC power supply can be connected to the DC power socket on the back of the LX88, if you plan 
to use the keyboard without a computer.  
 
Nektar DAW Integration  
If your DAW is supported with Nektar DAW integration software, locate the “Impact LX DAW Integration” folder and run the 
installer you will find in that directory.  
 
In the same directory there is a “Documentation” folder. Open it and locate the PDF file that’s applicable to your DAW. Follo w 
the instructions in the PDF for any additional setup as well as learn how the integration works.  
 
Since the initial release of Impact LX there have already been several updates to Nektar DAW integration files. If you want t o 
make sure you have the latest installer, register your product and download the files by following the link at the bottom of the 
page.  
 
Register for Updates  
You do not need to register your Impact LX in order to get up and running, however there are several benefits to registering:  
 Notification of new updates to your Impact LX DAW integration  
 PDF download of this manual as well as the latest DAW integration files  
 Access to our email technical support  
 Warranty service  
 
The first step is to create a user account with us, which you can do here:  
 
                             www.nektartech.com/registration  
 
 


6    Nektar Impact LX49, LX61 & LX88 User Guide                                                        www.nektartech.com   
Installing and Setting Up Studio One Artist  
The included PreSonus Studio One Artist for OSX and Windows is a powerful and complete DAW that allows you to get started 
straight away with your Impact LX, even if you don’t have any other music software.  
 
Installation  
The Studio One Artist 2.6  installer can be located on the included DVD and the product key on the white DVD sleeve.  
Your Presonus Studio One Artist license is subject to PreSonus’s standard End User License Agreement (EULA) which must be 
accepted upon installation. In addition, Studio One Artist requires a personal product registration through the internet and a 
computer matching the minimum requirements of the software.   
 
Here are the steps you need to go through to set up Studio One Artist with 
the Impact LX:  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 Locate the Studio One Artist installer on the included DVD  
 Follow the onscreen instructions to activate, create a user account 
and complete installation  
 Locate the “Impact LX DAW Integration” folder on the included 
DVD or download it from “My Downloads” on www.nektartech.com 
after registering your product  
 Run the “DAW Integration Installer” in that folder and follow the 
on-screen instructions, selecting Studio One as your DAW.  
 Booting up Studio One Artist you will see an initial setup screen 
similar to image 1. Click on “Configure External Devices…”,     
highlighted in the red box in image 1  
 Next you will see the Options menu. Click on “External Devices”. 
The options window should now look like image 2  
 If your Studio One program already show 2 Impact LX devices, 
you may be ready to go. Use the following steps for troubleshoot-
ing. If only 1 Impact LX device shows up, you’ll need to complete 
the following steps.  
 Select the Nektar Impact LX device and click “Edit”  
 In the resulting pop -up window make sure that all the MIDI chan-
nels 1 -16 are highlighted in light blue. If they are not light blue, 
click the “All” button, just above the indicators. The window 
should now look like image 3  
 Click “Ok” to close the window  
 Back in the “Options” window, click “Add” to open the “Add     
Device” Window  
 Locate the Nektar folder, click the expand arrow and the click on 
the Impact LX Control option.  
 In the “Receive From” field select Port 2 or MIDIIN2. The window 
should now look like image 4  
 Click “OK”  to exit the “Add Device” menu and “OK” again to exit 
the “Options” menu  
Studio One Artist is now set up to work with your Impact LX.  
 
Studio One Pro  
If you are an existing user of Studio One Producer or Professional, the 
process is the same.  Image  
1 
Image  
2 
Image  
3 
Image  
4 


www.nektartech.com                                                           Nektar Impact LX49, LX61 & LX88 User Guide    7  
Studio One Artist and Impact LX Working Together  
Presonus Studio One Artist comes with it’s own documentation which cover all its functionality and powerful features. It’s a 
good idea to read and reference the documentation regularly to get the most out of your Studio One Artist product.  
But before you dive in to the Studio One Artist documentation, lets go through a few basics here first and in particular cove r 
how Studio One Artist and Impact LX work together.  
 
All Working Fine?  
First make sure that everything is set up correctly.  
 From the Studio One Artist Start -up window, click on “Create a new Song” on the right hand side  
 You should now be looking at the main Studio One Artist arrange and browser window on your computer screen.  
 Press a few keys on the Impact LX keyboard. As you press them, the orange arrow next to the MIDI icon in the 
bottom left corner of the window should light up.  If it doesn’t, you should go back and recheck your setup.  
 Next press the [Play] button  on the Impact LX transport. Studio One Artist should start to play. Press 
[Stop] to stop playback  
 Create a few audio tracks in Studio One Artist via the Track menu.  
 Press the [Mixer] button and with the audio tracks created, move the faders on Impact LX starting with number 1 and 
up. Each of the audio tracks volume indicators should change as you move their corresponding faders.  
 Next press the buttons below the faders. This should activate mute  for each of the corresponding tracks.  
 
If every thing at this point is working correctly, you are ready to learn  more about how Impact LX works with Studio One 
Artist. If you are not getting the results described, please check your installation one more time as well as the Nektar supp ort 
tab on our website www.nektartech.com  
 
Transport  
The transport buttons give access to activate or deactivate the following transport functions: Cycle (loop), Rewind (in 1 bar  
decrements), Forward (in 1 bar increments), Stop, Play, Record.  
 
 
 
 
In addition the buttons double up with functionality that’s accessed by holding down the [Shift] button. The chart below tell s 
you  what each button and button combination does and how they behave.  
 
  
Key Combination  Description  
[Cycle]  Switch the loop/cycle between the Left and Right locators on/off  
[Rewind]  Rewinds in steps of 1 bar. Press and hold for fast rewind  
[Forward]  Forward in steps of 1 bar. Press and hold for fast forward  
[Stop]  Stop playback. Press twice to goto zero  
[Play]  Activate play  
[Record]  Activate record. Press again to deactivate record but continue play  
[Shift]+[Cycle]  Goto Left locator  
[Shift]+[Rewind]  Set Left locator at current song position  
[Shift]+[Forward]  Set Right locator at current song position  
[Shift]+[Stop]  Undo last changes. To undo while in  record, press [Record] first to deactivate, then 
undo to remove your recording.  
[Shift]+[Play]  Switch the Click/metronome on/off  
[Shift]+[Record] (Mode)  Quantize selected part or notes. To quantize while in record, press [Record] first to 
deactivate, then press Mode to quantize your recording  


8    Nektar Impact LX49, LX61 & LX88 User Guide                                                        www.nektartech.com   
Studio One Mixer Control  
To control the Studio One mixer, press the [Mixer] button to select the mixer preset. The display’s left dot is illuminated w hile 
the preset is selected and the Studio One mixer is being controlled.  
 
Open/Close the Studio One Mixer Window  
If the Studio One mixer is not in view you can press [Shift]+[Mixer] to bring it in to view. Press the same button combinatio n 
again to close the mixer window. While the Mixer preset is selected, your Impact LX continues to control the Studio One 
mixer, even if the mixer window is closed.  
 
Channel Volume & Pan  
With the mixer preset active, moving faders 1 -8 will control the first 8 mixer channels in the Studio One Mixer. The 8 pots 
control pan for each or the corresponding channels.  
 
Fader 9 controls the channel corresponding to the currently selected track so as you change tracks, you can quickly change 
volume as you are working. If you have 15 tracks in your song and the currently selected track is 12,  that would result in 
faders 1 -8 controlling mixer channel volume 1 -8 and fader 9 controlling channel volume 12.  
 
Mute & Solo  
Fader buttons 1 -8 control mute for each of the tracks the faders are assigned to control. If you prefer to solo tracks, you can 
press and hold fader button 9 while pressing fader buttons 1 -8. The 8 buttons will now control solo for their corresponding 
tracks.  
 
Banks Over (1 -8), (9 -16) etc  
If your song contains more than 8 mixer channels you can bank over so the faders 1 -8 control the next group of 8 channels.  
To do this, press [Shift]+[Bank>] (the second fader button). The faders, pots and fader buttons  are now assigned to control 
channels 9 -16.  Push the same key combination again to control 17 -24 etc.  
 
To go back you press [Shift]+[<Bank]  
 
One disadvantage is that Studio One does not give you any visual indication which group of 8 channels you are currently 
controlling. The safest way to work with the Studio One mixer is to keep a group of 8 channels that you want regular mixer 
control over, as the first a tracks in your song and then use fader 9 as you navigate through tracks to adjust volume for all  
other channels.  
 
Master Volume  
You can control the Master Volume fader of the Studio One mixer by pressing [Fader button 9) and then move fader 9 while 
the button is pressed.  
 
Upon release of the button, fader 9 will revert to control the current channel volume.  


www.nektartech.com                                                           Nektar Impact LX49, LX61 & LX88 User Guide    9  
Studio One Instrument Control  
Press the [Inst] button to select the Instrument preset. The display’s center dot is illuminated while the preset is selected .  
To control an instrument you must however be on an instrument track. To create one, first click on “Instruments”  in the 
Studio One browser home window. The click on Mojito and drag it in to the Studio One arrangement window.  
 
An instrument track has now been created and the monophonic synth Mojito is visible on your computer display. You can 
create instrument tracks for any of the other Studio One instruments using the same method.  
 
First-time Setup  
If this is the first time you are using Impact LX with Studio One, please check that the control surface selected to control 
instruments is “Impact  LX Control”.   
 On Mojito (or any other plugin) make sure the GUI button for the 
control is orange as shown in the image on the right  
 Next click on the arrow to the left of the orange GUI button for a list of 
your control surface options  
 Select “Impact LX Control” as show in the image on the right  
Once done, you should not have to worry about this again unless your setup 
changes.  
 
Open/close the Instrument Window  
When you are on an instrument track, you can press [Shift]+[Inst.] to bring the instrument GUI window in to view. Press the 
same button combination again to close the instrument window.  
 
Impact LX’s Instrument preset will control the parameters in the plug -in window that’s in focus. You can read more about how 
this works in the Studio One Reference Manual, Chapter 11.5: Global and Focus Mapping. To find this document go to the 
“Help” menu.  
 
Changing Patches and Controlling an Instrument  
You can step through instrument patches and control essential instrument parameters from Impact LX which makes it easy to 
change and tweak sounds while you play. Here is how to do that:  
 Create or select an instrument track in Studio One  
 Make sure the instrument GUI window is in focus. If not, press [Shift]+[Inst.] on Impact LX  
 Change instrument patch by pressing [Shift]+[Patch>] to go to the next patch or [Shift]+[<Patch] to go to the previous 
patch  
Each of Impact LX’s controls are pre -mapped to Studio One’s built -in instruments with envelopes typically mapped on the 
faders and controls that have the biggest impact on sound are mapped to the pots such as Cutoff, Resonance, Filter Env etc. 
Happy tweaking.  
 
 
 
 
 



10    Nektar Impact LX49, LX61 & LX88 User Guide                                                        www.nektartech.com   
 
Viewing Assigned Controls  
The Studio One Focus window will show you what’s assigned to each of instrument presets controls. If you have space on 
your computer screen this can be a good window to keep in view.  
There are a few ways to open the Focus window. The below image shows 2 different ways:  
1) After moving an Impact LX control you will see the control in the window to the left of the tool box. Double click on the 
“Impact LX Control” surface as indicated by the red box to open the Focus window  
2) In any plug -in window, double click on the “Impact LX Control” surface as indicated by the second red box in the Mojito 
window. This will open the Focus window  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Focus window will show you the name of each parameter assigned to Impact LX’s Instrument preset controls at any one 
time and their current value.  
 
Customizing Plug -in Mapping  
If you want to make changes to plug -in mapping you can do that right within Studio One. Read the Studio One Reference 
Manual’s chapter 11 for additional information and instructions about how to do this.  
 
Navigating Insert Plug -ins 
If you have effect plug -ins assigned to an instrument track, you can not only control them, but also navigate between every 
plug-in in the insert chain.  
 
First press [Shift]+[Fader button 6] to bring the Insert Effects window in to view. Remember, the plug -in in focus is the one 
you control and it’s parameters will be visible in the Focus window.  
 
With multiple effect plug -ins inserted on a track, press [Shift]+[Fader button 7] to go to previous insert and [Shift]+[Fader 
button 8] to go to next insert (see image below).  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
When you are done controlling insert effects, close the window by pressing [Shift]+[Fader button 6].  
 
 



www.nektartech.com                                                           Nektar Impact LX49, LX61 & LX88 User Guide    11  
Studio One Impact Drum Instrument  
The Studio One Impact (no relation, really) Drum instrument can be played from the Impact LX keyboard or 8 pads.  
Operating the drum instrument works the same way as any other instrument and using the Pad maps 1+2 you are able to 
play drum sounds straight away. However you will notice that that the first pad on Studio One Impact is assigned to the MIDI 
note B0. Pad map 1 starts at C1 so neither Pad map 1 or 2 will by default allow you to play this pad.  
 
In addition, you may prefer to create a setup where the 8 pads play a specific selection of any of Studio One Impacts 16 pad 
sounds. Thankfully there is a learn function for that.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
“Learning” Studio One Impact Sounds to the Pads  
 
It’s easy to change a pad note assignments using the Pad Learn function. It works as follows:  
 
1. Press the function button labeled [Pad Learn]. The display will now blink, showing P1 (pad 1) as the default selected pad.  
2. Hit the pad you want to assign a new note value to. The display blinks and updates to show the number of the pad you 
selected.  
3. Press the key on the keyboard that plays the Studio One Impact sound you want to assign to the pad. You can keep 
playing notes on the keyboard until you have found the note you want.  
4. When you are done, press [Pad Learn] to exit and start playing your pads with the new assignment.  
 
You can keep repeating steps 2. and 3. until you have created a complete Pad Map. The settings are stored over power 
cycling so you will not lose them as you power down your system. However it’s a good idea to save setups that you may want 
to have access to regularly in the future to one of the 4 pad map locations in Impact LX.  To learn how to do that, go to the  
“Setup  Menu” section in this manual.  
 
Mixing Studio One Impact Drum Sounds  
Studio One Impact has a lot of controls but perhaps most important is the ability to create a good mix of the 16 drum sounds.  
To help make that process easier, the default parameters assigned to Impact LX’s controls  are volume. To mix the 16 sounds 
you can therefore use the faders 1 -8 to control volume for pads 1 -8 and the pots 1 -8 to control volume for pads 9 -16. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



12    Nektar Impact LX49, LX61 & LX88 User Guide                                                        www.nektartech.com   
Keyboard, Octave and Transpose  
The Impact LX keyboard is velocity sensitive so you can play the instrument expressively. There are 5 different velocity 
curves to choose from, each with varying dynamics. In addition, there are 3 fixed velocity settings.  
 
We recommend you spend a little time playing with the default velocity curve and then determine if you need more or less 
sensitivity. You can learn more about velocity curves and how to select them on page 24.  
 
Octave Shift (not applicable to LX88)  
To the left of the keyboard you find the Octave and Transpose shift buttons.  
 With each press the left Octave button will shift the keyboard down one 
octave.  
 The right Octave button will similarly shift the keyboard up 1 octave at a time, 
when pressed.  
 
The maximum you can shift the LX keyboard is 3 octaves down and 4 octaves up 
and the LX61 can be shifted 3 octaves up. This covers the entire MIDI keyboard 
range of 127 notes.  
 
Program, MIDI Channel and Preset Control with 
the Octave Buttons (not applicable to LX88)  
The Octave buttons can also be used to send out MIDI program messages, change 
the Global MIDI channel or select the Impact LX’s control presets. To change the 
buttons function:  
 Press the two Octave buttons simultaneously.  
 The display will now show the current assignment abbreviation for a little over 1 second.  
 Press the Octave up or down button to step through the options.  
 
Below is the list of the functions that the Octave buttons can be assigned to control. The Display column shows the text 
abbreviation for each function as they appear on the Impact LX display. The function remains assigned to the buttons until 
another function is selected. After power cycling the default function is selected.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Transpose, Program, MIDI Channel and Preset Control with the Transpose 
Buttons  
The Transpose buttons work in an similar way to the Octave buttons with the following function options:  
Display  Function  Value range  
trA Transpose the keyboard up or down  -/+ 12 semi tones  
Oct Shift Octave up/down (Impact LX88 only)  -/+ 2 
PrG Sends out MIDI program change messages  0-127 
GCh Change the Global MIDI Channel  1 to 16  
PrE Select any of the 5 control presets  1 to 5  Display  Function  Value range  
Oct Shift Octave up/down  -3 / +4  
PrG Sends out MIDI program change messages  0-127 
GCh Change the Global MIDI Channel  1 to 16  
PrE Select any of the 5 control presets  1 to 5  


www.nektartech.com                                                           Nektar Impact LX49, LX61 & LX88 User Guide    13  
Layer & Split (Impact LX88 only)  
The Impact LX88 can send MIDI notes on a layer and split zone providing a total of 3 zones that each can send on a different 
MIDI channel. If you own a multitimbral sound module, multiple synths or operate a multitimbral software instrument you will 
be able to take advantage of these features.  
 
Layer  
The layer zone is on if the layer button is illuminated. By default the layer MIDI channel is set to 2. The global MIDI chann el is 
set to 1 by default so each key press will now send two MIDI notes: One on channel 1 and another on channel 2.  
 
Split 
The split zone is on if the split button is illuminated. By default the split point is set to F#2 (the 3rd F# from the left o f the 
keyboard) and the split zone is therefore the keys below F#2. The default MIDI channel for the split zone is 3.  
If layer is still on, you will be sending one MIDI note on channel 3 when playing the keys below F#2 and two MIDI notes on 
channel 1 and 2 when you play the notes from F#2 and up.  
 
Setting the Split point  
To change the split point, press and hold the Layer and Split buttons. Next select the new split point by pressing the 
corresponding key on the keyboard. Release the Layer and Split buttons and the new split point is set.  
 
Setting Octave and MIDI Channel with Transpose Buttons  
 
It’s quick and easy to change layer and split settings using the configurable transpose buttons. Here is how it works:  
 
 Assign either Octave or MIDI Channel to the Transpose buttons as described on the previous page.  
 Press and hold the zone button (Layer or Split) while pressing the Transpose buttons to change the setting for the 
function you selected.  
 Release the zone button when done.  
 
If for example you assign the Transpose buttons to Octave, you are able to quickly set the octave shift value independently 
for each of the layer and split zones while pressing their respective buttons. Once you release the zone button, pressing the  
Transpose buttons will affect only the main keyboard zone.  
 
 
Sending MIDI Program Messages  
MIDI program messages can be sent via the MIDI channel set up for layer or split.  
 
 First assign Program to the Transpose buttons as described on the previous page.  
 Press and hold the zone button (Layer or Split) while pressing the Transpose buttons. Each press will send out a MIDI 
program message on the MIDI channel assigned to the selected zone. The program number you are sending is indicated 
on the display.  
 
You can also send out a specific MIDI program change message. This is described in the Setup section.  


14    Nektar Impact LX49, LX61 & LX88 User Guide                                                        www.nektartech.com   
Wheels and Foot Switch  
Pitch bend and Modulation Wheels  
The two wheels below the Octave and Transpose buttons are typically used for Pitch bend and Modulation.  
The Pitch bend wheel is spring loaded and automatically reverts to it’s center position upon release. It’s ideal to bend note s 
when you are playing phrases that require this kind of articulation. The bend range is determined by the receiving instrument . 
 
The Modulation wheel can be freely positioned and is programmed to control modulation by default.  
 
Both the Pitch bend and the Modulation wheel are MIDI assignable with settings stored over power cycling so you don’t lose 
them when you switch the unit off. Pitch bend and Modulation assignments are not part of the Impact LX presets.  
 
Foot Switch  
You can connect a foot switch pedal (optional, not included) to the 1/4” jack socket on the back of the Impact LX keyboard. 
The correct polarity is automatically detected on boot -up, so if you plug in your foot switch after boot -up is complete, you 
may experience the foot switch working in reverse. To correct that, do the following  
 
 Switch the Impact LX off  
 Make sure your foot switch is connected  
 Switch the Impact LX on  
 
The polarity of the foot switch should now be automatically detected.  
 
Switching Wheels and Foot Switch On/Off for Layer & Split (LX88 only)  
Pitch bend, modulation wheel and foot switch can each be on and off for the layer, split and the regular keyboard zones.  
Read the section about Setup on page 20, for further information about how to do that.  
 
 


www.nektartech.com                                                           Nektar Impact LX49, LX61 & LX88 User Guide    15  
Controlling MIDI Software  
Impact LX has incredible flexibility when it comes to controlling a DAW or other MIDI software. There are typically 4 differe nt 
ways to set up Impact LX many controls though it’s not uncommon to use a combination of different approaches.   
 
1. Install the included Presonus Studio One Artist software and control it from Impact LX (page 6)  
2. Install the Impact DAW integration files for use with an existing DAW (must be on our supported list)  
3. Set up a DAW with controller learn  
4. Programming Impact LX controls for your software  
 
1. and 2. are relatively easy to get started with so you can jump to the sections that cover each of these now if you are kee n 
to get going. If you plan to use your DAWs learn function or Impacts presets at a later stage, we do recommend reading 
through this chapter in order to understand how Impact LX is structured.  Lets start with an overview of what is stored in 
memory.  
 
 
Mixer, Instrument and Presets  
Impact LX has 5 user configurable presets though in reality, the total amount of useable presets is 7. That’s because pressin g 
the Mixer or Instrument button each recall a read -only preset.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A preset contains control settings for the 9 faders, 9 fader buttons and 8 pots.  
 
The Preset button recalls the currently selected user preset. Since any of the 5 user presets can quickly be selected using 
either the Octave or Transpose buttons, this gives tremendous flexibility. Below is a list of what each of the 5 presets are 
programmed to by default. Each can be programmed with your own MIDI settings which we will cover later.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Presets 1, 4 and 5 are set up to transmit on the global MIDI channel. When you change the global MIDI channel (as described 
earlier, you can use the Octave and Transpose buttons to do this at any time) you therefore change the MIDI channel that 
these presets transmit on. With 16 MIDI channels available it means you can create 16 unique setups and just change the 
MIDI channel to switch between them.  
 
A list of controller assignments for each of the 5 presets is available on pages 26 -30. 
 
Preset  Description  
1 GM Instrument preset  
2 GM Mixer ch 1 -8 
3 GM Mixer ch 9 -16 
4 Learn friendly 1 (Fader buttons Toggle)  
5 Learn friendly 2 (Fader buttons Trigger)  


16    Nektar Impact LX49, LX61 & LX88 User Guide                                                        www.nektartech.com   
Controlling MIDI Software (cont)  
Global Controls  
 
Global controls are controls that are not stored in a preset and therefore Pitch bend/Modulation wheels plus the Foot Switch 
fall in this category.  
 
The 6 transport buttons in addition, are also global controls and assignments are stored over power cycling.  
 
 
 
 
 
As you change presets or adjust your preset controls, global controls remain unchanged. This makes sense since Transport 
and keyboard controls typically are set up to do one thing specifically.  
 
 



www.nektartech.com                                                           Nektar Impact LX49, LX61 & LX88 User Guide    17  
Function Buttons  
The second row of buttons below the display contains 5 function and menu buttons. Each work a little different so here is 
an overview of what they do.  
 
Shift/Mute  
When you press and hold this button, the MIDI output from real -time controls is muted. This allows you to reposition faders 
and pots without sending MIDI data.  
In addition, pressing this button activates the secondary functions of buttons, screened below those buttons. So for 
example, press and hold [Shift/Mute]+[Pad 4] will load Pad Map 4. Press and hold [Shift/Mute]+[Pad 2] will load Pad Map 
2.  
The remaining functions screen printed below the buttons are mainly used for the Impact LX DAW integration so check the 
integration documentation for further information  
 
Snapshot  
Pressing [Snapshot] will send out current status of faders and pots. This can both be used as a status recall feature but 
also as a fun experimental feature to change parameters without knowing for sure what will happen.  
 
Null 
Impact’s DAW integration files contain automatic catch -up or soft takeover functions that avoids parameter jumping by 
delaying parameter updates until a physical control position matches the value of the parameters.  
 
The Null function works in a similar way but does not rely on feedback from your software to achieve it. It remembers your 
parameter settings when you change between presets so you catch -up parameter values or “null”.  
 
Example:  
1. Select [Preset] and make sure [Null] is set to on.  
2. Set the Transpose (or Octave) buttons to change presets (as described earlier) and select Preset 1.  
3. Move Fader 1 to maximum (127).  
4. Select Preset 2 using the Transpose buttons.  
5. Move fader 1 to minimum (000).  
6. Select Preset 1 using the Transpose buttons.  
7. Move Fader 1 away from it’s minimum position and notice the display reads “Up” until you reach 127.  
8. Select Preset 2 and move the fader away from the maximum position. Notice the display reads ‘dn” until you reach 
000.  
 
While “up” or “dn” is displayed, no control update values are sent to your software.  
 
The null setting is independent for each of Mixer, Inst. and Preset.  
To switch the function on or off, first select [Preset]  and then press [Null] until you see the status you want (on/off).  
Press [Mixer] or [Inst] followed by pressing [Null] to set the setting for each of these options.  
 
If you are using Nektar Integrated DAW support, please make sure to check the setup instructions for your DAW. Null is in 
some cases required to be off because Impact LX uses a different method to avoid parameter jumping.  
 
Pad Learn  
Pad learn allows you to quickly select a pad and learn a note assignment by pressing a key on the keyboard. This is 
explained in more detail in the next section about Pads.  
 
Setup  
Pressing the setup button will mute the keyboard output and instead activate the setup menus accessible via the keyboard. 
Go to page 20 for more information about the setup menus.  


18    Nektar Impact LX49, LX61 & LX88 User Guide                                                        www.nektartech.com   
Pads  
The 8 pads are velocity sensitive and programmable with either note or MIDI switch messages. This means you can use them 
as regular MIDI buttons as well as to punch out your drum beats and percussive melody parts. In addition, the pads have 5 
velocity curve options and 3 fixed value options you can choose between depending on what you are doing and your playing 
style.  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pad Maps  
You can load and save up to 4 different pad setups in 4 memory locations called Pad maps. Here is how you load pad maps:  
 
 Press and hold the [Shift/Mute] button  
 Press the pad that corresponds to the pad map you want to recall  
 
The following page show the 4 pad maps default assignments. Map 1 is a chromatic scale which is continued in Map 2. If you 
have drum setup that’s laid out this way (many are) you can access drums 1 -8 using Map 1 and drums 9 -16 using Map 2.  
 
Pad Learn  
It’s easy to change a pad note assignments using the Pad Learn function. It works as follows:  
 
1. Press the function button labeled [Pad Learn]. The display will now blink, showing P1 (pad 1) as the default selected pad.  
2. Hit the pad you want to assign a new note value to. The display blinks and updates to show the number of the pad you 
selected.  
3. Press the key on the keyboard that corresponds to the note you want to assign to the pad. You can keep playing notes 
on the keyboard until you have found the note you want.  
4. When you are done, press [Pad Learn] to exit and start playing your pads with the new assignment.  
 
You can keep repeating steps 2. and 3. until you have created a complete Pad Map.  
 
Programming MIDI Messages to Pads  
The pads can also be used as MIDI switch buttons. To learn more, please the Setup Menu pages.  
 
  
Pad Velocity Curves  
You can choose between 4 velocity curves and 3 fixed velocity value options. For more information about the velocity curves 
and how to choose them, read about the Setup Menu and go to page 24 for details about pad velocity curves.  



www.nektartech.com                                                           Nektar Impact LX49, LX61 & LX88 User Guide    19  
Pads Maps Default Settings  
 
Map 1        
  Note  Note No.  Data 1  Data 2  Data 3  Chan  
P1 C1 36 0 127 0 Global  
P2 C#1 37 0 127 0 Global  
P3 D1 38 0 127 0 Global  
P4 D#1 39 0 127 0 Global  
P5 E1 40 0 127 0 Global  
P6 F1 41 0 127 0 Global  
P7 F#1 42 0 127 0 Global  
P8 G1 43 0 127 0 Global  
Map 2        
  Note  Note No.  Data 1  Data 2  Data 3  Chan  
P1 G#1 44 0 127 0 Global  
P2 A1 45 0 127 0 Global  
P3 A#1 46 0 127 0 Global  
P4 B1 47 0 127 0 Global  
P5 C2 48 0 127 0 Global  
P6 C#2 49 0 127 0 Global  
P7 D2 50 0 127 0 Global  
P8 D#2 51 0 127 0 Global  
Map 3        
  Note  Note No.  Data 1  Data 2  Data 3  Chan  
P1 C3 60 0 127 0 Global  
P2 D3 62 0 127 0 Global  
P3 E3 64 0 127 0 Global  
P4 F3 65 0 127 0 Global  
P5 G3 67 0 127 0 Global  
P6 A3 69 0 127 0 Global  
P7 B3 71 0 127 0 Global  
P8 C4 72 0 127 0 Global  
Map 4        
  Note  Note No.  Data 1  Data 2  Data 3  Chan  
P1 C1 36 0 127 0 Global  
P2 D1 38 0 127 0 Global  
P3 F#1 42 0 127 0 Global  
P4 A#1 46 0 127 0 Global  
P5 G1 43 0 127 0 Global  
P6 A1 45 0 127 0 Global  
P7 C#1 37 0 127 0 Global  
P8 C#2 49 0 127 0 Global  


20    Nektar Impact LX49, LX61 & LX88 User Guide                                                        www.nektartech.com   
Setup Menu  
The Setup menu gives access to additional functions such as control assign, load, save, selecting velocity curves and more. 
To enter the menu, press the [Setup] button. This will mute the MIDI output of the keyboard and instead the keyboard now is 
used to select menus.  
When the Setup menu is active, the display will show  {S.E.t.} with the 3 dots blinking for as long as the menu is active.  
 
The chart below provides an overview of menus assigned to each key and what display abbreviations you see in the Impact 
LX display (in parentheses), when a key is pressed.  
Menu keys are the same for both Impact LX49, LX61 and LX88 but value entry using the keyboard is one octave higher on 
LX61 and LX88. Refer to the screen printing on the unit to see which keys to press to enter values.  
 
The functions are separated in two groups. The first group spanning C1 -G1 covers control assignments and behavior, 
including Save and Load of the 5 presets and 4 pad maps. When you press the keys in this group you first see an 
abbreviation showing the function. This means you can press keys until you find exactly the menu you want without worrying 
about controls changing assignments. Since this group of functions are the ones you most likely will use more regularly this 
makes the menus easy to find.  
 
The second group spanning C2 -A2 covers global and setup functions. Most of the second group functions will show you their 
current status when you press a key.  
 
On the following page we cover how each of these menus work. Note the documentation assumes you have an understanding 
of MIDI including how it works and behaves. If you are not familiar with MIDI, we recommend you study MIDI before making 
control assignment changes to your keyboard. A good place to start is the MIDI Manufacturers Association www.midi.org  
C1 C2 -   + 


www.nektartech.com                                                           Nektar Impact LX49, LX61 & LX88 User Guide    21  
Assigning Controls to MIDI messages  
Since the Mixer and Instrument presets are read -only, the first 4 functions C1 -E1 applies only to Presets and cannot be 
selected if either Mixer or the Instrument [Inst.] preset is selected. To enter the Setup menu’s assign functions, please do the 
following:  
 
 Press [Preset]  
 Press [setup]  
 The display now reads {S.E.t.} with the 3 display dots {…} blinking  
 
The Setup menu is now active and the keyboard no longer send MIDI notes when you press the keys. To exit the Setup 
menu, press [Setup] again at any time.  
 
Control Assign (C1)  
This function allows you to change the MIDI CC number of a control. (if applicable. Assignment type has to be MIDI CC).  
Most of the controls by default are assigned to send MIDI CC message type. Here is how it works:  
 
 Press the low C1 on your keyboard to select Control Assign. The display reads {CC}  
 Move or press a control. The value you see in the display is the currently assigned value (000 -127) 
 Change the value in decrements/increments using the keys with the -/+ symbols screened above (C3/C#3). The value 
assignment is instant so if you exit the Setup menu after making changes, those changes remain active  
 You can also enter a specific value using the white number keys spanning G3 –B4 (G4 -B5 on LX61). Press Enter (C5) to 
accept the change.  
 
MIDI Channel Assign (D1)  
Each control within a preset can be assigned to send on a specific MIDI channel or follow the Global MIDI channel.  
 
 Press D1. The display reads {Ch}  
 Move or press a control. The value you see in the display is the currently assigned MIDI channel (000 -16). The MIDI 
specifications allow for 16 MIDI channels. In addition Impact LX give you the option to select 000 which is the selection 
for the Global MIDI channel.  Most of the default presets assign controls to the Global MIDI channel so you may see this 
value when you move a control.  
 Change the value in decrements/increments using the keys with the -/+ symbols screened above (C3/C#3). The value 
assignment is instant so if you exit the Setup menu after making changes, those changes remain active  
 You can also enter a specific value using the white number keys spanning G3 –B4 (G4 -B5 on LX61).  Press Enter (C5) to 
accept the change  
 
 
 
 


22    Nektar Impact LX49, LX61 & LX88 User Guide                                                        www.nektartech.com   
 
 Assignment Types (E1)  
Most of the controls in the default presets are assigned to MIDI CC messages. But there are several other options and the 
below chart shows you which are available for the two types of controls.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To change an assignment type, do the following:  
 Press the E1 on your keyboard to select Control Assign. The display reads {ASG}  
 Move or press a control. The type abbreviation you see in the display is the currently assigned type as per above chart  
 Change the value in decrements/increments using the keys with the -/+ symbols screened above (C3/C#3). The type 
change is instant so if you exit the Setup menu after making changes, those changes remain active  
 
Data 1 and Data 2 Values (C#1 & D#1)  
The Data 1 and Data 2 functions are required for some controller assignments as per the chart below.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To enter a Data 1 or Data 2 value, do the following:  
 Press either C#1 or D#1  on your keyboard to select either Data 1 or Data 2. The display reads {d1} or {d2}  
 Move or press a control. The controls Data 1 or Data 2 value will be visible in the display  
 Change the value in decrements/increments using the keys with the -/+ symbols screened above (C3/C#3). The value 
assignment is instant so if you exit the Setup menu after making changes, those changes remain active  
 You can also enter a specific value using the white number keys spanning G3 –B4 (G4 -B5 on LX61).  Press Enter (C5) to 
accept the change  
 
 Controller Type  Assignment Type  Display Abbreviations  
Pitch bend, Modulation 
Wheel, Faders 1 -9,       MIDI CC  CC 
Pitch Bend  Pbd 
Buttons 1 -9, Transport 
buttons, Foot Switch,  
Pads 1 -8 MIDI CC Toggle  toG 
MIDI CC Trigger/Release  trG 
MIDI note  n 
MIDI note toggle  nt 
MIDI Machine Control  nnc 
Controller Type  Assignment Type  Data 1  Data2  
Pitch bend, Modulation 
Wheel, Faders 1 -9,       
Pots 1 -8 MIDI CC  Max value  Min value  
Pitch Bend  Max value  Min value  
Buttons 1 -9, Transport 
buttons, Foot Switch,   MIDI CC Toggle  CC value 1  CC vaue 2  
MIDI CC Trigger/Release  Trigger value  Release value  
MIDI note  Note on velocity  MIDI note #  
MIDI Machine Control  n/a Sub-ID #2  


www.nektartech.com                                                           Nektar Impact LX49, LX61 & LX88 User Guide    23  
 
Drawbar On/Off (F1)  
The Drawbar function reverses the value output of the 9 faders  from the default 0 -127 to 127 -0. This can also be achieved 
by reversing the min/max values of a control when you program Data 1 and Data 2. However if you don’t want to change the 
reversal permanently in your preset, this function is ideal and here is how to activate it:  
 
 Press F1 to show the current drawbar status. The display will read either {On} or {OFF}. Off is default.  
 Press F1 again to change the status.  
 
The change is immediate so to try out the next setting just press [Setup] to exit the Setup menu.  
 
Save Presets and Pad Maps (F#1)  
When you make assignment changes to a control or pad, the changes are stored in a current working memory area and the 
settings are also stored over power cycling.  
However if you change preset or pad map your settings will be lost because the loaded data will overwrite your programmed 
changes. If you don’t want to lose your work we recommend saving as soon as you have created your setup. Here is how to 
do that:  
 
Save a Preset  
 Press F#1 to activate the Save menu. The display will read {SAu} (yeah, that’s supposed to be a v)  
 Select the Preset you want to save to, using the keys with the -/+ symbols screened above (C3/C#3).  
 You can also enter a specific preset number (1 -5) using the white number keys spanning G3 –D4 (G4 -D5 on LX61).  
 Press Enter (C5) to save to the selected Preset location (applicable for both selection methods)  
 
Save a Pad Map  
 Press F#1 to activate the save menu. The display will read {SAu} (yeah, that’s supposed to be a v)  
 Press [Shift] and the pad corresponding to the pad map you want to save your pad settings to (1 -4) 
 Press Enter (C5) to save to the selected pad map location  
 
Load a Preset (G1)  
We explained earlier how you can use the Octave and Transpose buttons to select presets. Here is an alternative option for 
loading presets so you don’t have to change your button functions.  
 
 Press G1 to activate the Load menu. The display will read {Lod} (better than Loa, right?)  
 Select the Preset you want to load using the keys with the -/+ symbols screened above (C3/C#3). Presets are loaded 
instantly as you step through them.  
 You can also enter a specific preset number (1 -5) using the white number keys spanning G3 –D4 (G4 -D5 on LX61). Press 
Enter (C5) to load the selected Preset location (only applicable when loading using the number entry option)  
 
 
 
 


24    Nektar Impact LX49, LX61 & LX88 User Guide                                                        www.nektartech.com   
Global Functions and Options  
Unlike the Control Assign functions, Global functions can be accessed regardless of what preset has been selected.  
And just to recap:  
Pressing the [Setup] button will activate the Setup menu and the display will show  {S.E.t.} with the 3 dots blinking for as 
long as the menu is active. The following assumes the Setup menu is active.  
 
Global MIDI Channel (C2)  
The Impact LX keyboard always transmit on the Global MIDI Channel but this setting also affect any control or pad that is not  
assigned to a specific MIDI channel (i.e. 1 -16). Earlier we learned how the Octave and Transpose buttons can be set up to 
change the Global MIDI Channel but here is another option:  
 
 Press the C2 key on your keyboard to select Global MIDI Channel. The display show the current value {001 -016} 
 Change the value in decrements/increments using the keys with the -/+ symbols screened above (C3/C#3). The value 
assignment is instant so if you exit the Setup menu after  making changes, those changes remain active  
 You can also enter a specific value (1 -16) using the white number keys spanning G3 –B4. Press Enter (C5) to accept the 
change  
 
Setting the Layer & Split MIDI Channels  (C2) (LX88 only)  
MIDI channel can also be set independently for layer and split on the Impact LX88.  On page  13 we covered how to set it 
using the transpose buttons but you can also set the MIDI channel for Layer and Split in the Setup menu.  
 Press the C2 key on your keyboard to select Global MIDI Channel. The display show the current value {001 -016} 
 Press and hold the [Layer] or [Split] button. The selected button will now blink  
 Change the value in decrements/increments using the keys with the -/+ symbols screened above (C3/C#3). Press Enter 
(C5) to accept the change  
 You can also enter a specific selection (0 -127) using the white number keys spanning G3 –B4. Press Enter (C5) to accept 
the change  
 
Keyboard Velocity Curves (C#2)  
There are 4 different keyboard velocity curves and 3 fixed velocity levels to choose between, depending on how sensitive and 
dynamic you want the Impact LX keyboard to play.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Here is how you change a velocity curve:  
 Press the C#2 key on your keyboard to select Velocity Curve. The display show the current selection  
 Change the value in decrements/increments using the keys with the -/+ symbols screened above (C3/C#3). The value 
assignment is instant so if you exit the Setup menu after  making changes, those changes remain active  
 You can also enter a specific selection (1 -7) using the white number keys spanning A3 –G4. Press Enter (C5) to accept Name  Description  Display abbreviation  
Normal  Focus on mid to high velocity levels  uC1 
Soft The most dynamic curve with a focus on the low to 
mid velocity levels  uC2 
Hard Focus on the higher velocity levels. If you don't 
like exercising your finger muscles, this may be 
the one for you  uC3 
Linear  Approximates a linear experience from low to high  uC4 
127 Fixed  Fixed velocity level at 127  uF1 
100 Fixed  Fixed velocity level at 100  uF2 
64 Fixed  Fixed velocity level at 64  uF3 


www.nektartech.com                                                           Nektar Impact LX49, LX61 & LX88 User Guide    25  
 
Pads Velocity Curves (D2)  
There are 4 different pad velocity curves and 3 fixed velocity levels to choose between, depending on how sensitive and 
dynamic you want the Impact LX pads to play.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Here is how you change a velocity curve:  
 
 Press the D2 key on your keyboard to select Velocity Curve. The display show the current selection  
 Change the value in decrements/increments using the keys with the -/+ symbols screened above (C3/C#3). The value 
assignment is instant so if you exit the Setup menu after  making changes, those changes remain active  
 You can also enter a specific selection (1 -7) using the white number keys spanning A3 –G4. Press Enter (C5) to accept 
the change  
 
Panic (D#2)  
Panic sends out the all notes off and reset all controllers MIDI messages on all 16 MIDI channels. This happens the minute 
you press D#2 and the Setup menu will exit upon release of the key.   
 
Program (E2)  
Earlier in this guide we covered how you can send MIDI program change messages using the Octave and Transport buttons. 
However there may be times when the Transpose buttons are deeded for another function or you want to send out a specific 
MIDI program change message without having to inc/dec to get to it. This function allows you to do that.  
 Press the E2 key on your keyboard to select Program. The display show the last sent program message or 000 by default  
 Change the value in decrements/increments using the keys with the -/+ symbols screened above (C3/C#3). Press Enter 
(C5) to accept the change and send out the selected MIDI program message.  
 You can also enter a specific selection (0 -127) using the white number keys spanning G3 –B4. Press Enter (C5) to accept 
the change  
 
Sending Program Messages via Layer & Split (E2) (LX88 only)  
MIDI Program messages can also be sent independently for layer and split on the Impact LX88.  On page  13 we covered how 
to set it using the transpose buttons but you can also set the MIDI channel for Layer and Split in the Setup menu.  
 Press the E2 key on your keyboard to select Program. The display show the last sent program message or 000 by default  
 Press and hold the [Layer] or [Split] button. The selected button will now blink  
 Change the value in decrements/increments using the keys with the -/+ symbols screened above (C3/C#3). Press Enter 
(C5) to accept the change and send out the selected MIDI program message  
 You can also enter a specific selection (0 -127) using the white number keys spanning G3 –B4. Press Enter (C5) to accept Name  Description  Display abbreviation  
Normal  Focus on mid to high velocity levels  PC1 
Soft The most dynamic curve with a focus on the low to 
mid velocity levels  PC2 
Hard Focus on the higher velocity levels. If you don't 
like exercising your finger muscles, this may be 
the one for you  PC3 
Linear  Approximates a linear experience from low to high  PC4 
127 Fixed  Fixed velocity level at 127  PF1 
100 Fixed  Fixed velocity level at 100  PF2 
64 Fixed  Fixed velocity level at 64  PF3 


26    Nektar Impact LX49, LX61 & LX88 User Guide                                                        www.nektartech.com   
 
Bank LSB (F2)  
This function will send a Bank LSB MIDI message from the keyboard. Note, most software products don’t respond to Bank 
change messages but many MIDI hardware products do. Here is how you send out a Bank LSB message  
 Press the F2 key on your keyboard to select Bank LSB. The display show the last sent Bank message or 000 by default  
 Change the value in decrements/increments using the keys with the -/+ symbols screened above (C3/C#3). Press Enter 
(C5) to accept the change and send out the selected Bank LSB  message.  
 You can also enter a specific selection (0 -127) using the white number keys spanning G3 –B4 (G4 -B5 on LX61).  Press 
Enter (C5) to accept the change  
 
Bank MSB (F#2)  
This function will send a Bank MSB MIDI message from the keyboard. Note, most software products don’t respond to Bank 
change messages but many MIDI hardware products do. Here is how you send out a Bank MSB message  
 Press the F#2 key on your keyboard to select Bank MSB. The display show the last sent Bank message or 000 by default  
 Change the value in decrements/increments using the keys with the -/+ symbols screened above (C3/C#3). Press Enter 
(C5) to accept the change and send out the selected Bank MSB  message.  
 You can also enter a specific selection (0 -127) using the white number keys spanning G3 –B4(G4 -B5 on LX61). Press 
Enter (C5) to accept the change  
 
Sending Bank LSB/MSB Messages via Layer & Split (F2 & F#2) (LX88 only)  
MIDI Program messages can also be set independently for layer and split on the Impact LX88.   
 Press the F2 (or F#2) key on your keyboard to select Program. The display show the last sent Bank message or 000 by 
default 
 Press and hold the [Layer] or [Split] button. The selected button will now blink  
 Change the value in decrements/increments using the keys with the -/+ symbols screened above (C3/C#3). Press Enter 
(C5) to accept the change and send out the selected MIDI Bank message  
 You can also enter a specific selection (0 -127) using the white number keys spanning G3 –B4. Press Enter (C5) to accept  
 
Memory Dump (G2)  
The Memory Dump function will back up your current controller assignment settings including the 5 user presets by sending 
out MIDI sysex data. The data can be recorded in your DAW or other application capable of recording sysex data and 
replayed/sent back to your Impact LX keyboard when you want to reload your settings.  
 
Sending out a memory dump for backup:  
 Make sure your MIDI software program is set up and capable of recording MIDI Sysex data  
 Start recording  
 Press the G2 key on your keyboard to activate the memory dump. The display reads {SYS} while the data is being sent.  
 Stop recording when the display reads {000}. The content of your Impact LX memory should now be recorded in your 
MIDI software program  
 
Restoring a backup:  
A memory dump/backup MIDI sysex file can be sent to the Impact LX at any time, while the unit is powered on, in order to 
restore a backup. Make sure the Impact LX is the output destination of the MIDI track containing the backup data. The 
display will read {SyS} when data is received. Once the data has transmission has been completed, the backup has been 
restored.  


www.nektartech.com                                                           Nektar Impact LX49, LX61 & LX88 User Guide    27  
 
MIDI Out from USB (G#2) (LX88 only)  
The MIDI out jack on the back of the Impact LX88 (not available on other Impact models) can be used to route MIDI 
messages directly from the Impact LX88 keyboard and controls to external hardware. This is the default operation.  
 
It’s also possible to use the MIDI out as a USB to MIDI interface which means that if you are using music application on your  
computer, you can route MIDI messages from the application to external hardware, via the build -in MIDI port. Here is how 
you change the port setting:  
 Press the G#2 key on your keyboard to toggle the on/off setting for USB Out from USB  
 When the display reads {On} the MIDI output acts as a USB to MIDI interface.   
 The change is immediate so you can check if the setting is correct before leaving the Setup menu  
 
USB Port Setup (A2)  
Impact LX has one physical USB port however there are 2 virtual ports as you may have discovered during the MIDI setup of 
your music software. The additional virtual port is used by the Impact DAW software to handle communication with your 
DAW. You only need to change the USB Port Setup setting if the Impact LX setup instructions for your DAW specifically 
advises that this should be done.  
 
Setting the Virtual USB Port for Layer & Split (A2) (LX88 only)  
You can set the virtual USB port output independently for Layer and Split on the Impact LX88. This allows you to for example 
route the main port to one computer music application and the second output to another, but play both by just switching 
layer or split on.  Here is how you set the USB output port:  
 
 Press the A2 key on your keyboard to select USB Port Setup. The display show the current value {0,1 or 2}  
 Press and hold the [Layer] or [Split] button. The selected button will now blink and the display reads {LP1} for Layer or 
{SP1} for split. By default port 1 is selected for both Layer and Split  
 Change the value to {LP2} or {SP2} (depending on the function you selected) using the keys with the -/+ symbols 
screened above (C3/C#3)  
 Press Enter (C5) to accept the change  
 
Note: If you are using Nektar DAW integration it’s not possible to route the second port to another application. Both ports a re 
required for the DAW integration to work correctly.  
 
 


28    Nektar Impact LX49, LX61 & LX88 User Guide                                                        www.nektartech.com   
User Preset 1 GM Instrument  
Faders        
Ctrl Msg Type  CC Data 1  Data 2  Chan  Param  
F1 MIDI CC  73 127 0 Global  Attack  
F2 MIDI CC  75 127 0 Global  Decay  
F3 MIDI CC  72 127 0 Global  Release  
F4 MIDI CC  91 127 0 Global  Effect depth 1 (Reverb 
Send Level)  
F5 MIDI CC  92 127 0 Global  Effect depth 2  
F6 MIDI CC  93 127 0 Global  Effect depth 3 (Chorus 
send level)  
F7 MIDI CC  94 127 0 Global  Effect depth 4  
F8 MIDI CC  95 127 0 Global  Effect depth 5  
F9 MIDI CC  7 127 0 Global  Volume  
       
Buttons        
Ctrl Msg Type  CC Data 1  Data 2  Chan  Param  
B1  MIDI CC (Toggle)  0 127 0 Global  Bank MSB  
B2 MIDI CC (Toggle)  2 127 0 Global  Breath  
B3 MIDI CC (Toggle)  3 127 0 Global  Control Change 
(Undefined)  
B4 MIDI CC (Toggle)  4 127 0 Global  Foot Controller  
B5 MIDI CC (Toggle)  6 127 0 Global  Data Entry MSB  
B6 MIDI CC (Toggle)  8 127 0 Global  Balance  
B7 MIDI CC (Toggle)  9 127 0 Global  Control Change 
(Undefined)  
B8 MIDI CC (Toggle)  11 127 0 Global  Expression Contrller  
B9 MIDI CC (Toggle)  65 127 0 Global  Portamento On/Off  
       
Pots        
Ctrl Msg Type  CC Data 1  Data 2  Chan  Param  
K1 MIDI CC  74 127 0 Global  Brightness  
K2 MIDI CC  71 127 0 Global  Harmonic Content  
K3 MIDI CC  5 127 0 Global  Portamento Rate  
K4 MIDI CC  84 127 0 Global  Portamento Depth  
K5 MIDI CC  78 127 0 Global  Control Change (Vibrato 
Delay)  
K6 MIDI CC  76 127 0 Global  Control Change (Vibrato 
Rate)  
K7 MIDI CC  77 127 0 Global  Control Change (Vibrato 
Depth)  
K8 MIDI CC  10 127 0 Global  Pan 
Note: B9 is assigned to MIDI cc 65 on all presets intended to be available for a global function  


www.nektartech.com                                                           Nektar Impact LX49, LX61 & LX88 User Guide    29  
User Preset 2 GM Mixer 1 -8 
Faders        
Ctrl Msg Type  CC Data 1  Data 2  Chan  Param  
F1 MIDI CC  7 127 0 1 CH1 Volume  
F2 MIDI CC  7 127 0 2 CH2 Volume  
F3 MIDI CC  7 127 0 3 CH3 Volume  
F4 MIDI CC  7 127 0 4 CH4 Volume  
F5 MIDI CC  7 127 0 5 CH5 Volume  
F6 MIDI CC  7 127 0 6 CH6 Volume  
F7 MIDI CC  7 127 0 7 CH7 Volume  
F8 MIDI CC  7 127 0 8 CH8 Volume  
F9 MIDI CC  7 127 0 G Selected CH Volume  
       
Buttons        
Ctrl Msg Type  CC Data 1  Data 2  Chan  Param  
B1  MIDI CC 
(Toggle)  12 127 0 1 Mute  
B2 MIDI CC 
(Toggle)  12 127 0 2 Mute  
B3 MIDI CC 
(Toggle)  12 127 0 3 Mute  
B4 MIDI CC 
(Toggle)  12 127 0 4 Mute  
B5 MIDI CC 
(Toggle)  12 127 0 5 Mute  
B6 MIDI CC 
(Toggle)  12 127 0 6 Mute  
B7 MIDI CC 
(Toggle)  12 127 0 7 Mute  
B8 MIDI CC 
(Toggle)  12 127 0 8 Mute  
B9 MIDI CC 
(Toggle)  65 127 0 Global  Portamento  
       
Pots        
Ctrl Msg Type  CC Data 1  Data 2  Chan  Param  
K1 MIDI CC  10 127 0 1 CH Pan  
K2 MIDI CC  10 127 0 2 CH Pan  
K3 MIDI CC  10 127 0 3 CH Pan  
K4 MIDI CC  10 127 0 4 CH Pan  
K5 MIDI CC  10 127 0 5 CH Pan  
K6 MIDI CC  10 127 0 6 CH Pan  
K7 MIDI CC  10 127 0 7 CH Pan  
K8 MIDI CC  10 127 0 8 CH Pan  
Note: B9 is assigned to MIDI cc 65 on all presets intended to be available for a global function  


30    Nektar Impact LX49, LX61 & LX88 User Guide                                                        www.nektartech.com   
User Preset 3 GM 9 -16 
Faders        
Ctrl Msg Type  CC Data 1  Data 2  Chan  Param  
F1 MIDI CC  7 127 0 9 CH1 Volume  
F2 MIDI CC  7 127 0 10 CH2 Volume  
F3 MIDI CC  7 127 0 11 CH3 Volume  
F4 MIDI CC  7 127 0 12 CH4 Volume  
F5 MIDI CC  7 127 0 13 CH5 Volume  
F6 MIDI CC  7 127 0 14 CH6 Volume  
F7 MIDI CC  7 127 0 15 CH7 Volume  
F8 MIDI CC  7 127 0 16 CH8 Volume  
F9 MIDI CC  7 127 0 G Selected CH Volume  
       
Buttons        
Ctrl Msg Type  CC Data 1  Data 2  Chan  Param  
B1  MIDI CC (Toggle)  12 127 0 9 Mute  
B2 MIDI CC (Toggle)  12 127 0 10 Mute  
B3 MIDI CC (Toggle)  12 127 0 11 Mute  
B4 MIDI CC (Toggle)  12 127 0 12 Mute  
B5 MIDI CC (Toggle)  12 127 0 13 Mute  
B6 MIDI CC (Toggle)  12 127 0 14 Mute  
B7 MIDI CC (Toggle)  12 127 0 15 Mute  
B8 MIDI CC (Toggle)  12 127 0 16 Mute  
B9 MIDI CC (Toggle)  65 127 0 Global  Portamento  
       
Pots        
Ctrl Msg Type  CC Data 1  Data 2  Chan  Param  
K1 MIDI CC  10 127 0 9 CH Pan  
K2 MIDI CC  10 127 0 10 CH Pan  
K3 MIDI CC  10 127 0 11 CH Pan  
K4 MIDI CC  10 127 0 12 CH Pan  
K5 MIDI CC  10 127 0 13 CH Pan  
K6 MIDI CC  10 127 0 14 CH Pan  
K7 MIDI CC  10 127 0 15 CH Pan  
K8 MIDI CC  10 127 0 16 CH Pan  
Note: B9 is assigned to MIDI cc 65 on all presets intended to be available for a global function  


www.nektartech.com                                                           Nektar Impact LX49, LX61 & LX88 User Guide    31  
User Preset 4 “Learn” Friendly 1  
Faders       
Ctrl Msg Type  CC Data 1  Data 2  Chan  
F1 MIDI CC  80 127 0 Global  
F2 MIDI CC  81 127 0 Global  
F3 MIDI CC  82 127 0 Global  
F4 MIDI CC  83 127 0 Global  
F5 MIDI CC  85 127 0 Global  
F6 MIDI CC  86 127 0 Global  
F7 MIDI CC  87 127 0 Global  
F8 MIDI CC  88 127 0 Global  
F9 MIDI CC  3 127 0 Global  
      
Buttons       
Ctrl Msg Type  CC Data 1  Data 2  Chan  
B1  MIDI CC (Toggle)  66 127 0 Global  
B2 MIDI CC (Toggle)  67 127 0 Global  
B3 MIDI CC (Toggle)  68 127 0 Global  
B4 MIDI CC (Toggle)  69 127 0 Global  
B5 MIDI CC (Toggle)  98 127 0 Global  
B6 MIDI CC (Toggle)  99 127 0 Global  
B7 MIDI CC (Toggle)  100 127 0 Global  
B8 MIDI CC (Toggle)  101 127 0 Global  
B9 MIDI CC (Toggle)  65 127 0 Global  
      
Pots       
Ctrl Msg Type  CC Data 1  Data 2  Chan  
K1 MIDI CC  89 127 0 Global  
K2 MIDI CC  90 127 0 Global  
K3 MIDI CC  96 127 0 Global  
K4 MIDI CC  97 127 0 Global  
K5 MIDI CC  116 127 0 Global  
K6 MIDI CC  117 127 0 Global  
K7 MIDI CC  118 127 0 Global  
K8 MIDI CC  119 127 0 Global  
Note: B9 is assigned to MIDI cc 65 on all presets intended to be available for a global function  


32    Nektar Impact LX49, LX61 & LX88 User Guide                                                        www.nektartech.com   
User Preset 5 “Learn” Friendly 2  
Faders       
Ctrl Msg Type  CC Data 1  Data 2  Chan  
F1 MIDI CC  80 127 0 Global  
F2 MIDI CC  81 127 0 Global  
F3 MIDI CC  82 127 0 Global  
F4 MIDI CC  83 127 0 Global  
F5 MIDI CC  85 127 0 Global  
F6 MIDI CC  86 127 0 Global  
F7 MIDI CC  87 127 0 Global  
F8 MIDI CC  88 127 0 Global  
F9 MIDI CC  3 127 0 Global  
      
Buttons       
Ctrl Msg Type  CC Data 1  Data 2  Chan  
B1  MIDI CC (Trig)  66 127 0 Global  
B2 MIDI CC (Trig)  67 127 0 Global  
B3 MIDI CC (Trig)  68 127 0 Global  
B4 MIDI CC (Trig)  69 127 0 Global  
B5 MIDI CC (Trig)  98 127 0 Global  
B6 MIDI CC (Trig)  99 127 0 Global  
B7 MIDI CC (Trig)  100 127 0 Global  
B8 MIDI CC (Trig)  101 127 0 Global  
B9 MIDI CC (Trig)  65 127 0 Global  
      
Pots       
Ctrl Msg Type  CC Data 1  Data 2  Chan  
K1 MIDI CC  89 127 0 Global  
K2 MIDI CC  90 127 0 Global  
K3 MIDI CC  96 127 0 Global  
K4 MIDI CC  97 127 0 Global  
K5 MIDI CC  116 127 0 Global  
K6 MIDI CC  117 127 0 Global  
K7 MIDI CC  118 127 0 Global  
K8 MIDI CC  119 127 0 Global  
Note: B9 is assigned to MIDI cc 65 on all presets intended to be available for a global function  


www.nektartech.com                                                           Nektar Impact LX49, LX61 & LX88 User Guide    33  
Factory Restore  
If you need to restore factory settings for example if you by mistake managed to change the assignments needed for DAW 
integration files, here is how you do that.  
 
 Make sure your Impact LX is switched off  
 Press the [Octave up]+[Octave down]  ([Layer]+[Split] on LX88) buttons and hold them  
 Switch your Impact LX on  
 


34    Nektar Impact LX49, LX61 & LX88 User Guide                                                        www.nektartech.com   


www.nektartech.com                                                           Nektar Impact LX49, LX61 & LX88 User Guide    35  


36    Nektar Impact LX49, LX61 & LX88 User Guide                                                        www.nektartech.com   
 
 
 
 Designed by Nektar Technology, Inc, California  
 Made in China  
www.nektartech.com  